所有分组
1. Section 1, Module 1: Reading and Writing / unknown (27)
2. Section 1, Module 2: Reading and Writing / easy (27)
3. Section 1, Module 2: Reading and Writing / hard (27)
4. Section 2, Module 1: Math / unknown (22)
5. Section 2, Module 2: Math / easy (22)
6. Section 2, Module 2: Math / hard (22)
Section: Section 1, Module 1: Reading and Writing, Difficulty:
unknown (27 questions)
1.
Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase?
A study by Augusta D. Gaspar and Joana Carneiro Pinto found that a bankʼs corporate social
responsibility (CSR) efforts, including environmental and social campaigns, improve its
corporate image. When CSR was mentioned in bank marketing strategies, favorability scores
assigned by study participants tended to ______ the scores assigned by participants when
CSR wasnʼt mentioned.
A. identify
B. disturb
C. replace
D. exceed
Answer: D
2.
Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase?
Researchers have long debated the origins of silver used in European coins from the 600s
through the early 800s CE. Geochemical analysis by Kershaw et al. of 49 coins dating to
660–820 CE provides concrete evidence that reconciles two competing theories: early coins
were made from Byzantine silver, and later coins used Frankish silver, findings that provide
firm details in a previously ______ area of study.
A. esoteric
B. authoritative
C. solitary
D. speculative
Answer: D
3.
As used in the text, what does the word “mastery” most nearly mean?
The following text is adapted from Alice Dunbar Nelsonʼs 1899 short story “The Fisherman of
Pass Christian.” Pass Christian is a city in the US state of Mississippi. 
The swift breezes on the beach at Pass Christian meet and conflict as though
each strove for the mastery of the air. The land-breeze blows down through the
pines, resinous, fragrant, cold, bringing breath-like memories of dim, dark woods
shaded by myriad pine-needles. The breeze from the Gulf is warm and soft and
languorous, blowing up from the south with its suggestion of tropical warmth.
A. Familiarity
B. Domination
C. Comprehension
D. Skillfulness 
Answer: B
4.
Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase?
Science fiction has long served as a ______ real-world technological advancements. Indeed,
from Jules Verneʼs 1865 novel From the Earth to the Moon inspiring developments in
aerospace engineering to the television show Star Trek sparking the design of the ancestor
of todayʼs smartphones, these narratives have spurred many actual innovations.
A. diversion from
B. catalyst of
C. constraint to
D. sponsor of
Answer: B
5.
Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase?
Any effort to raise the toll that drivers must pay to use the Lewis and Clark Bridge, which
spans the Ohio River to connect Indiana and Kentucky, should explain why a higher toll is
necessary; no amount of justification, however, is likely to persuade some drivers who
believe the current toll is ______.
A. exorbitant
B. contentious
C. equivocal
D. warranted
Answer: A
6.
Which choice best describes the function of the underlined sentence in the text as a whole?
Moving beyond a simple “present or absent” designation, researchers created a new
classification system that allows for a nuanced understanding of bioluminescence in marine
organisms that was unavailable under binary classification systems. The new six-point scale
considers varying levels of supporting evidence used to identify bioluminescent species. For
example, the firefly squid scores 1 because of inconsistent reports, the emperor squid
scores 4 because of its anatomical similarity to known luminous relatives, and the shaggy
anglerfish scores 6 because of substantiated direct observations.
A. It emphasizes the thoroughness of the research conducted. 
B. It explains how the new classification system was derived from the previous binary
system.
C. It justifies the need for a new classification system for marine species.
D. It explains the basis for the new systemʼs scoring criteria.
Answer: D
7.
Which choice best describes the function of the underlined portion in the text as a whole?
Postcranial skeletal pneumaticity (PSP) refers to the presence of extensions of an animalʼs
lungs and air sacs inside its bones. These extensions are known as pneumatic diverticula.
Vascularity and other identifying characteristics of pneumatic diverticula tend not to
fossilize, so paleontologists have relied on studies of living bird species to document these
qualities, augmenting their findings from fossil analysis to glean additional insights into the
respiratory systems of extinct genera such as Tyrannosaurus, Euhelopus, and other
Cretaceous theropods and sauropods that may have also exhibited PSP.
A. It presents information about the fossilization of pneumatic diverticula that has led
paleontologists to question the applicability of studies of certain living species.
B. It accounts for disagreements among paleontologists about how the respiratory systems
of certain extinct genera functioned. 
C. It highlights an issue with fossils that previously led paleontologists to misidentify certain
characteristics of pneumatic diverticula.
D. It indicates why paleontologists have used another approach in addition to fossil analysis
to learn about certain aspects of pneumatic diverticula.
Answer: D
8.
Which choice best describes the function of the underlined portion in the text as a whole?
Adult glass eels can be found off the coast of Maine, but the eels begin their lives in the
Sargasso Sea, a biodiverse area in the North Atlantic Ocean where they are born and later
return to breed. Though biologists believe they have identified the general area in the
Sargasso Sea that is crucial to the endangered eelsʼ survival, little is yet known about how
the animals spawn there. Scientists believe that solving the mystery will lead to better
conservation of glass eels and their habitat, helping in turn to sustain several other species
that rely on them as a food source.
A. It suggests that scientists are more concerned about other species than about glass eelsʼ
habitat.
B. It indicates that the benefit of understanding glass eelsʼ spawning behavior extends
beyond the eels.
C. It discusses a role that glass eels and other species serve in supporting the ecosystem of
the Sargasso Sea.
D. It presents a finding from a study that identifies the circumstances required to ensure the
survival of glass eels.
Answer: B
9.
According to the text, what is someone who professionally evaluates books called?
Seesaw Girl was Linda Sue Parkʼs debut novel. It was published in 1999. A debut novel is the
first book that an author has published. Debut novels are especially interesting to literary
critics (people whose job it is to evaluate books) and readers because these books offer a
look at new voices in the literary world.  
A. A book publisher
B. A literary critic
C. A bookseller
D. An author
Answer: B
10.
Which choice most effectively uses data from the table to complete the statement?
Millions of Metric Tons of
Copper Mined in 1995 and
2020
Country19952020
Indonesia0.440.51
Mexico0.330.73
Peru0.382.15
United States1.851.20
While doing research for a paper about metal exports, a student finds a table indicating how
much copper was mined in each of four countries in 1995 and 2020. The student notes that
in 1995, Mexico mined ______
A. 0.38 million metric tons of copper.
B. 0.33 million metric tons of copper.
C. 1.85 million metric tons of copper.
D. 0.44 million metric tons of copper.
Answer: B
11.
Which quotation from Peter Pan best supports the claim?
Peter Pan is a 1911 novel by J.M. Barrie. In the fantasy novel, Peter is a young boy who can
fly. He brings Wendy, John, and Michael to Neverland, the mythical island where he lives.
The narrator suggests that activity on the island stops when Peter is away and starts again
when he is about to return: ______
A. “The rock was very small now.”
B. “Wendy and John and Michael stood on tip-toe in the air to get their first sight of the
island.”
C. “Peter was alone on the lagoon.”
D. “Feeling that Peter was on his way back, the Neverland had again woke into life.”
Answer: D
12.
Which quotation from a translation of The Underdogs most effectively illustrates the claim?
The Underdogs is a 1915 novel by Mariano Azuela, originally written in Spanish. In the novel,
Azuela depicts the character Camilla as experiencing a change in how she perceives her
immediate surroundings: ______
A. “Camilla stared up at the blue sky so [Luis] should not read the expression in her eyes.”
B. “Camilla, standing on the beach of washed, round stones, caught a reflection of herself in
the waters.”
C. “All nature was as she had found it before, evening upon evening; but in the stones and
the dry weeds, amid the fragrance of the air and the light whir of falling leaves, Camilla
sensed a new strangeness, a vast desolation in everything about her.”
D. “[Camilla] closed her eyes fast to hold back the tears that welled up in them. Then, with
the back of her hand, she wiped her wet cheeks, and just as she had done three days ago,
fled with all the swiftness of a young deer.”
Answer: C
13.
Which finding, if true, would most directly weaken the researcherʼs claim?
The Rarámuri language of northern Mexico has 20 vowel and consonant sounds. In contrast,
the Taa language of southern Africa has over 100. Why would languages differ in this way?
One researcher has claimed that when modern humans arose in Africa, they spoke a single
language, but as humans gradually spread throughout Africa and then around the globe, that
language developed into new languages. Those developed into still more languages as small
bands of humans spread even farther, with each new language retaining fewer sounds from
humanityʼs original language.
A. A wider range of sounds is found across the languages of Africa as a whole than across
the languages of South America as a whole. 
B. Languages that emerged in Europe and Western Asia tend to have more sounds than
languages that emerged in Africa do.
C. Languages that emerged in Central America tend to have fewer sounds than languages
that emerged in Western Europe do, and Central America is farther away from Africa than
Western Europe is.
D. The number of sounds is fairly consistent across the various languages that emerged in
the last parts of Africa to be settled by humans.
Answer: B
14.
Which choice most logically completes the text?
Antonia Olivia Dolan and colleagues had musicians and nonmusicians with clinically average
hearing listen to recordings of nature sounds and music in popular genres like acoustic folk
and funk and adjust the volume to optimize their listening enjoyment. The researchers found
that for a given recording that a musician and nonmusician identified as their favorite among
those included in the study, optimal volume tended to be higher for the musician than for the
nonmusician. Thus, if a musician and nonmusician both identified Jose Gonzalezʼs
“Heartbeats” as their favorite recording and the musician preferred to listen to it at a volume
of 82.2 decibels, the nonmusician would be expected to ______
A. find listening to “Heartbeats” at 82.2 decibels less enjoyable than listening to it at a lower
volume.
B. prefer listening to other music at 82.2 decibels over listening to “Heartbeats” at that
volume.
C. enjoy listening to the nature sounds at 82.2 decibels more than listening to “Heartbeats”
at 82.2 decibels.
D. not find it enjoyable to listen to any recordings at a volume as low as 82.2 decibels. 
Answer: A
15.
Which choice most logically completes the text?
Outi Tervo and team studied the effect of human-caused noise on narwhals (Monodon
monoceros), arctic marine mammals that are sensitive to acoustic changes in their
environment. Hypothesizing that elevated sound levels affect foraging among narwhals,
Tervoʼs team compared narwhal diving behaviors in natural sound conditions with those
behaviors in two human-caused sound exposure conditions—ship sounds and ship sounds
coupled with sonic pulses. Both exposure conditions resulted in significant decreases in the
number and target depth of deep dives (associated with foraging) relative to natural
conditions. However, differences between diving behaviors in the two exposure types were
negligible, a finding that could be attributed to the fact that ______
A. narwhals forage at shallower depths in the presence of ship sounds alone than in the
presence of ship sounds coupled with sonic pulses.
B. sonic pulses can be heard at significantly greater ocean depths than ship sounds can.
C. the narwhals werenʼt as sensitive to human-caused sounds as the researchers had
predicted. 
D. ship sounds contribute so much to the overall sound level that the addition of sonic
pulses has little effect on the narwhalsʼ auditory environment.
Answer: D
16.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English?
Many works of the Greek mathematician Euclid (3rd century BCE) are ______ his Elements, a
treatise of mathematical knowledge, is an extant work: it can still be read. 
A. lost and conversely,
B. lost, conversely,
C. lost. Conversely,
D. lost, and conversely
Answer: C
17.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English?
A 2024 study cataloged all the trees in Amsterdam to evaluate the biodiversity of the cityʼs
urban forest. The researchers, finding that administrative unit GK13 had a 0.62 ratio of native
to non-native trees, ______ efforts to improve the biodiversity of the trees in that unit and
other areas with a similarly moderate ratio.
A. recommended
B. recommending
C. to recommend
D. having recommended
Answer: A
18.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English?
Growing as large as three meters in diameter, the leaves of the giant Amazonian waterlily
feature a complex network of radiating veins that provide structural ______ in thickness from
the center to the edges, these veins allow the leaves to maintain their large size and
buoyancy with minimal material, optimizing light capture and photosynthesis.
A. support. Decreasing
B. support decreasing
C. support, while decreasing
D. support, decreasing
Answer: A
19.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English?
______ a US state when it ratified the US Constitution on December 12, 1787, was thereby
empowered, via its representatives to the US Congress, to vote on whether to admit
Louisiana as a state on April 30, 1812.
A. Pennsylvania would officially become
B. Pennsylvania had officially become
C. Pennsylvania officially became
D. Pennsylvania, having officially become
Answer: D
20.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English?
Though largely eclipsed by her success as a novelist, Jessie Redmon Fausetʼs contributions
as literary editor of The Crisis, a New York City–based periodical whose influence was
arguably at its peak during her Harlem Renaissance–era tenure, ______ in recent scholarship
that explores Fausetʼs instrumental role in shaping the magazineʼs aesthetic and debuting
the work of Langston Hughes and other emerging Black writers.
A. has been revisited
B. have been revisited
C. revisited
D. having been revisited
Answer: B
21.
Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition?
Resins play several important roles in maintaining the health of conifers and many other
kinds of trees. ______ resins quickly seal wounds, which helps prevent harmful insects and
fungi from entering trees. These sticky substances also help trees retain water that is
needed for them to survive.
A. For example,
B. However, 
C. Regardless,
D. Next, 
Answer: A
22.
Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition?
Giant dust plumes from the Sahara Desert that blow across the Atlantic Ocean can have
complex and opposing effects on tropical cyclones. On one hand, the dust can enhance the
formation of ice clouds in the cycloneʼs core, increasing precipitation. ______ the dust can
lower sea surface temperatures around the cycloneʼs core, weakening the storm.
A. On the other hand,
B. Previously,
C. For example,
D. In other words,
Answer: A
23.
Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition?
Elvis Presleyʼs iconic jumpsuit Red Pinwheel featured rhinestones arranged in pinwheel
patterns. Historians note that adornments such as these added between twenty-five and
fifty pounds to each of Elvisʼs stage outfits. ______ the fabric used to make the outfits was
light and flexible, enabling freedom of motion. 
A. On the other hand, 
B. That is, 
C. For instance, 
D. There,
Answer: A
24.
Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition?
In a 1998 study by Smith et al., the researchers used microhistological fecal analysis to
determine the ratio of three plant subtypes (graminoids, forbs, and browse) within the diets
of North American ungulates. The researchers did not perform this analysis on all such
ungulates, ______ they focused exclusively on pronghorns and wild horses in New Mexico.
A. regardless;
B. in other words;
C. for instance;
D. however;
Answer: D
25.
Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition?
Though its onboard laboratory allowed it to analyze rock samples on-site, the 2011 Mars
Curiosity rover was unable to preserve samples for future analysis. ______ when creating the
2020 Mars Perseverance rover, robotics technologist Yumi Iwashita and other members of
NASAʼs Jet Propulsion Laboratory sought to implement a mechanism that could do exactly
that.
A. Specifically,
B. Earlier,
C. Hence,
D. Similarly,
Answer: C
26.
Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition?
As Iestyn Barr and his team of researchers discovered when establishing the glacial timeline
of Antarctica, the Transantarctic Mountains—a 3,500-km mountain range spanning the
continent—are home to glaciers of at least 60 million years in age. ______ the researchers
concluded, Antarctica had glaciers long before the formation of its continent-wide ice sheet
34 million years ago.
A. Thus,
B. By contrast,
C. Even so,
D. Nevertheless, 
Answer: A
27.
Which choice most effectively uses information from the given sentences to emphasize
Edisonʼs reliance on Hammer?
Thomas Edison is regarded as one of the most important inventors in US history.
Having received little formal schooling, Edison relied on specialist employees at his
various laboratories and offices to complete the technical work for many of his
inventions.
William Joseph Hammer was a laboratory assistant who worked at the Menlo Park
laboratory.
He is best known for curating the most comprehensive collection of historic light bulbs
anywhere in the world.
William Symes Andrews was an electrical engineer who worked at the Edison Electric
Light Company.
He is best known for establishing more than thirty power plants across New York and
Pennsylvania.
A. William Joseph Hammer, a laboratory assistant, worked at the Menlo Park laboratory.
B. William Joseph Hammer, a laboratory assistant, was known for his valuable contribution to
the field of technology.
C. Most of Thomas Edisonʼs employees had successful careers independent of working for
him; for example, William Joseph Hammer, who worked at the Menlo Park laboratory, was an
accomplished laboratory assistant.
D. Having received little formal education, Thomas Edison depended on specialized
employees, including laboratory assistant William Joseph Hammer, for many of his
inventions.
Answer: D
Section: Section 1, Module 2: Reading and Writing, Difficulty:
easy (27 questions)
1.
Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase?
In a 2020 experiment, Kai Ruggeri and his team presented participants from Spain, Slovenia,
and seventeen other countries with questions that were ______ those used in a
groundbreaking 1979 study. By using the same questions that the earlier study did, Ruggeri
and his team attempted to reproduce that studyʼs findings.
A. identical to
B. unavailable to
C. less entertaining than
D. more difficult than
Answer: A
2.
Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase?
Annie Smith Peck, who was the first person to climb Mount Nevado Huascarán in the Andes,
and Sophia Danenberg, who was the first Black woman to summit Mount Everest, are
ensured lasting places in our historical memory. No matter what others may do in the future,
nobody can ever ______ the standing of these women as the first to accomplish these feats.
A. imply
B. promote
C. undermine
D. extend
Answer: C
3.
As used in the text, what does the phrase “steals away” most nearly mean?
The following text is from Alice Moore Dunbar-Nelsonʼs 1895 poem “In Memoriam.” The
speaker describes sunshine coming into a cathedral.
The light streams through the windows arched high,
  And oʼer the stern, stone carvings breaks
  In warm rich gold and crimson waves,
Then steals away in corners dark to die.
A. Restores itself
B. Works away
C. Slips away
D. Identifies itself
Answer: C
4.
As used in the text, what does the word “produce” most nearly mean?
The following text is from Oscar Wildeʼs 1893 play Lady Windermereʼs Fan.
MRS. ERLYNNE: I am going to live abroad again. The English climate doesnʼt suit
me. My—heart is affected here, and that I donʼt like. I prefer living in the south.
London is too full of fogs and—and serious people, Lord Windermere. Whether
the fogs produce the serious people or whether the serious people produce the
fogs, I donʼt know, but the whole thing rather gets on my nerves.
A. Attach
B. Fancy
C. Make available
D. Bring about
Answer: D
5.
Which choice best describes the function of the underlined portion in the text as a whole?
A study by Mohamed Alburaki, Dennis vanEngelsdorp, and colleagues suggests that overall,
US honey bee populations exhibit low genetic diversity. Working with a large sample of
honey bee specimens collected from most US states, the researchers determined that there
are just three maternal evolutionary lineages in the populations: the North Mediterranean
lineage, the West Mediterranean lineage, and the African lineage. They found that of the
specimens from Montana, 100% descended from the North Mediterranean lineage—a
finding in keeping with that for the lineage in many of the other states studied.
A. It expands on the claim made earlier in the sentence by providing specific data.
B. It indicates that a result described earlier in the sentence reflects a widespread trend.
C. It acknowledges that the results of the study discussed in the text are not entirely
consistent with the researchersʼ hypothesis.
D. It summarizes the central conclusions of the study that is discussed in the text.
Answer: B
6.
Based on the texts, how would Lorde (Text 1) most likely respond to the argument presented
in Text 2?
Text 1
The poet Audre Lorde once claimed that poetry is the most inexpensive of art forms to
practice. While people who pursue other art forms—sculpture, architecture, theater—require
large blocks of uninterrupted time as well as money to complete their work, poets can write,
as Lorde said, “between shifts, in the hospital pantry, on the subway, and on scraps of
surplus paper.” So poets can make worthwhile art even if they must earn their living in
another way.
Text 2
Any assessment of the state of contemporary poetry must reckon with the
professionalization of the field. While it is possible in theory for anyone to publish in
Poetry, Kenyon Review, or a similar major poetry outlet, many people who do so have
professional training in poetry and extensive practice writing it, which requires time not often
available to those who must also work full-time jobs. Thus, financial security indirectly
affects which people become poets.
A. By indicating that those poets who publish in major poetry journals are most likely to be
able to earn a living by writing poetry
B. By pointing out that people can produce valuable poetry in other circumstances than
those described by the author of Text 2
C. By suggesting that those artists who specialize in more financially rewarding artistic
forms are unlikely to also be successful as poets
D. By asserting that people often work full-time jobs in order to afford the professional
training described in Text 2
Answer: B
7.
Based on the text, what would Hincapié most likely say is a promising way to increase
entrepreneurship in early adulthood? 
The average age at which people in the United States start businesses is 35. Economist
Andrés Hincapié studied why young adults are relatively less likely to start businesses and
whether there are ways to increase entrepreneurship in early adulthood. Hincapié found that
one impediment is lack of knowledge about the practical details of how businesses are
started; he further found that simply providing young adults with good informational
resources on the topic significantly alleviates this problem.
A. Creating social networks of young adults who are interested in starting a business
B. Providing young adults with practical information about how to start a business
C. Encouraging young adults to brainstorm business ideas
D. Giving young adults training opportunities at a variety of businesses
Answer: B
8.
According to the text, what draws divers and scientists to blue holes such as Watlingʼs Blue
Hole and the Taam Jaʼ Blue Hole?
Blue holes, such as Watlingʼs Blue Hole near San Salvador Island, are large marine sinkholes.
They are typically located in areas where the ocean bedrock is made of soluble material
(e.g., marble) because rock erosion is crucial to their formation. Because of the diverse
marine life they contain, blue holes attract numerous divers and scientists. Currently, the
Taam Jaʼ Blue Hole in Chetumal Bay, Mexico, is the deepest blue hole on record, measured
by Teresa Álvarez-Legorreta and colleagues to be at least 420 meters below sea level.
A. A hope to encounter a variety of marine organisms
B. A desire to witness the erosion of the rocks in the blue holes
C. A commitment to protecting the marble and other soluble materials in the blue holes
D. An interest in comparing the depths of Watlingʼs Blue Hole and the Taam Jaʼ Blue Hole to
the depths of other blue holes
Answer: A
9.
Based on the text, what is the most likely reason Vanderburgh and colleagues chose to avoid
the method used in the strawberry study?
In a 2024 study, Caihong Vanderburgh and colleagues examined whether the composition of
soil microbial communities could affect plantsʼ flavor chemistry. Whereas Jimenez-Gomez et
al. (2017) showed that adding specific bacterial or fungal strains to soil can yield increased
vitamin C in strawberry crops, Vanderburgh and team applied intact microbial communities
gathered from ecologically distinct settings across Colorado, including areas of aspen grove
and sagebrush, to mustard plants and evaluated the flavor compounds in the plantsʼ seeds.
This ensured that the microbial conditions in their experiment would better reflect the
variation and complexity of naturally occurring communities.
A. The microbial community in the soil from the strawberry study affected plantsʼ nutrition,
not their flavor chemistry.
B. The diversity of species of microorganisms in the soil from the strawberry study was
already abnormally high before the researchers added further microorganisms. 
C. The composition of microorganisms in the soil in the strawberry study may not have been
representative of a naturally existing composition.
D. The microbial community in the soil from the strawberry study likely included similar
species to those in wild soils.
Answer: C
10.
According to the table, what is the maximum speed for high-speed railway lines in China?
Maximum Speed for High-
Speed Railway Lines in Four
Countries
CountryMax speed (km/h)
Austria250
Belgium300
China350
Norway210
A student is comparing the speeds of trains on high-speed rail lines in different countries.
The table shows information about high-speed rail in four countries.
A. 350 km/h
B. 450 km/h
C. 300 km/h
D. 110 km/h
Answer: A
11.
Which choice most effectively uses data from the table to complete the example?
Examples of Hoards Found in Ireland and Northern Ireland
Hoard nameDate of contentsYear of
discovery Description
Derrynaflan
Hoard10th century CE1980silver and bronze
pieces
Derrinboy Hoard14th–13th century
BCE1957–1958gold jewelry
Hoard nameDate of contentsYear of
discovery Description
Armagh City
Hoard14th century CE1998silver coins
An anthropologist is recording the metal contents of various historical deposits of valuables,
called hoards, found in Ireland and Northern Ireland. He notes that the hoards differed in
their contents; for example, ______
A. the Derrynaflan Hoard was the only hoard that contained bronze.
B. the Derrinboy Hoard was the only hoard that contained silver.
C. neither the Armagh City Hoard nor the Derrynaflan Hoard contained bronze.
D. the Derrinboy Hoard contained no gold or silver.
Answer: A
12.
Which choice most effectively uses data from the graph to complete the sentence?
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0Percent
1953
1973
1993
2003
2013
2023Percentage of US Congress Members Who
Self-Identiﬁed as Veterans, 1953–2023
Year
House of Representatives
Senate
Since the nationʼs earliest days, both houses of the United States Congress have counted
many military veterans among their elected officials, including Hiram L. Fong (who served in
the US Army Air Force) and Ralph Harold Metcalfe Sr. (who served in the US Army). A
research institute gathered historical data about congressional members who have reported
past military experience and determined that ______
A. the percentage of those members remained fairly consistent, regardless of house, from
1993 to 2023.
B. from 2003 to 2023, the House of Representatives had a higher percentage of those
members than the Senate did.
C. the percentage of those members decreased substantially in both houses of Congress
from 1973 to 2013.
D. from 1953 to 2003, those members constituted a majority in both houses of Congress.
Answer: C
13.
Which choice most logically completes the text?
Evan MacLean and colleagues evaluated behavioral and genetic data from over 14,000 dogs,
representing more than 100 breeds, and found that genetic variations track to differing
extents with behavioral variations between the breeds. This was the case for the behavioral
categories of dog rivalry and excitability but was especially pronounced for attachment and
attention-seeking, which can be seen when a dog solicits affection or attention. In another
study, researchers found that the boxer and the Yorkshire terrier breeds exhibit very different
levels of attachment and attention-seeking. When considered in light of the study by
MacLean and colleagues, this finding suggests that ______
A. boxers and Yorkshire terriers are more likely to share genes associated with attachment
and attention-seeking than to share genes associated with dog rivalry or excitability. 
B. there may be a greater tendency toward attachment and attention-seeking in boxers and
Yorkshire terriers than in some other dog breeds.
C. there may be a substantial dissimilarity between boxers and Yorkshire terriers in the
genes associated with attachment and attention-seeking. 
D. individual boxers may display higher levels of attachment and attention-seeking than
individual Yorkshire terriers do.
Answer: C
14.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English?
Animals Out of Paper is a 2008 play by Rajiv Joseph. ______ play was first performed at the
McGinn/Cazale Theater in New York City.
A. These
B. This
C. It
D. Those
Answer: B
15.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English?
In the twentieth century, many countries developed secret codes. These codes were used
______ plans during wartime.
A. to communicate
B. communicates
C. communicate
D. have communicated
Answer: A
16.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English?
A portrait of Silas Wright, former governor of New York, appeared on the $50 gold
certificate. This form of paper currency ______ discontinued by the US Treasury in 1933.
A. having been
B. to be
C. was
D. being
Answer: C
17.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English?
Still Life with Three Puppies is a painting by Paul Gauguin, a French artist. Gauguin created
______ in 1888.
A. those
B. it
C. them
D. these
Answer: B
18.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English?
Physical barriers, chemical defenses, and protein defenses are the three main categories of
plant defense mechanisms. The poplar tree uses a ______ the trees produce chemicals that
prevent certain herbivorous insects from feeding on the treesʼ leaves.
A. chemical defense:
B. chemical defense,
C. chemical defense
D. chemical defense and
Answer: A
19.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English?
Julia Saltz is a biologist at Rice ______ conducts research on animal behaviors.
A. University. She
B. University she
C. University, she
D. University. Where she
Answer: A
20.
Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition?
Artistsʼ palettes—the surfaces on which painters arrange and mix their paints—can provide
valuable insights into the paintersʼ creative processes. In her 2024 book The Artistʼs Palette,
Alexandra Loske analyzes the palettes of 50 different painters across 500 years. ______
Loske reveals clues about the techniques and practices of such artists as Kerry James
Marshall, Artemisia Gentileschi, and Vincent van Gogh.
A. Lastly,
B. In comparison,
C. In doing so,
D. However,
Answer: C
21.
Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition?
The visual magnitude scale, which measures the brightness of stars, is reverse logarithmic:
the brighter a star, the lower its magnitude number. ______ the star Dubhe, the 34th
brightest in the sky, has a higher visual magnitude number (1.79) than does the brighter star
Adhara. The 22nd-brightest star, Adhara has a magnitude of 1.5.
A. On the other hand,
B. Hence,
C. Nonetheless,
D. Moreover,
Answer: B
22.
The student wants to emphasize a similarity between the two sculptures. Which choice most
effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
Save Me is a 2018 sculpture by American artist Olivia Steele.
It is crafted from pink neon lighting that spells out the title phrase (“save me”).
Harvest Moon is a 2013 sculpture by British/Pakistani artist Shezad Dawood.
It is crafted from yellow neon lighting that forms an abstract moon shape.
A. Both Steeleʼs and Dawoodʼs sculptures are crafted from neon lighting.
B. Dawoodʼs sculpture Harvest Moon consists of yellow neon lighting in an abstract moon
shape.
C. Rather than spelling out a phrase, Dawoodʼs sculpture forms an abstract moon shape.
D. The neon lighting in Save Me is pink, but the lighting in Harvest Moon is yellow.
Answer: A
23.
The student wants to emphasize a similarity between Douala and Schaan. Which choice
most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal? 
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
Usually, a countryʼs capital is also its largest city by population.
The capital of Cameroon is Yaoundé.
Its largest city by population is Douala.
The capital of Liechtenstein is Vaduz.
Its largest city by population is Schaan.
A. The most populous city in Cameroon is Douala, but its capital is Yaoundé.
B. The capital of Cameroon is Yaoundé; the capital of Liechtenstein is Vaduz.
C. While Douala is in Cameroon, Schaan is in Liechtenstein.
D. Although neither is a capital city, both Douala and Schaan are the most populous cities in
their countries.
Answer: D
24.
Which choice most effectively uses information from the given sentences to explain the 50
Completers hiking challenge to a new audience?
The Highpointers Club is a hiking club.
One of the main goals among club members is to reach the highest points in all fifty US
states.
Those who achieve this are called 50 Completers.
In Suk Han became a 50 Completer on November 15, 2013.
The highest point in West Virginia is Spruce Knob, at 4,863 ft.
The highest point in Colorado is Mount Elbert, at 14,440 ft.
A. Hikers aiming to count themselves among the 50 Completers must reach not only West
Virginiaʼs Spruce Knob but also the even higher peak of Mount Elbert in Colorado.
B. Not until after you have reached the highest points in all fifty US states—including Spruce
Knob in West Virginia and Mount Elbert in Colorado—can you include yourself among the 50
Completers of the Highpointers Club.
C. If you are looking for a new hiking challenge, consider joining the Highpointers Club, as
did In Suk Han, a hiker who successfully reached the highest point in every US state.
D. On November 15, 2013, In Suk Han finally completed the feat of reaching the highest
point in all fifty US states, including Spruce Knob in West Virginia and Mount Elbert in
Colorado.
Answer: B
25.
Which choice most effectively uses information from the given sentences to introduce Marie
Hall to a new audience?
Antonio Stradivari (1644–1737) was an Italian instrument maker.
He made about 1,000 violins in his lifetime.
Musicians prize his Stradivarius violins for their famed sound quality.
The Marie Hall Stradivarius is named for former owner Marie Hall, a British violinist.
A. The Marie Hall Stradivarius is named after Marie Hall.
B. Of the 1,000 or so violins Antonio Stradivari made, only about 500 exist today.
C. Marie Hall was a British violinist who once owned a Stradivarius violin.
D. Born in 1644, Antonio Stradivari was an Italian instrument maker whose violins are famous
for their quality.
Answer: C
26.
The student wants to compare the length of time Fannie May Salter and Ida Lewis worked as
lighthouse keepers. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes
to accomplish this goal?
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
Lighthouses send out crucial light signals to help ships and other watercraft navigate at
night.
Before automation, lighthouses were run by lighthouse keepers.
Fannie May Salter was the lighthouse keeper at Turkey Point Light in Maryland.
She held this position for twenty-two years (1925–1947).
Ida Lewis was the lighthouse keeper at Lime Rock Light in Rhode Island.
She held this position for fifty-four years (1857–1911).
A. From 1925 to 1947, the nighttime waters of Maryland were more navigable thanks to
lighthouse keepers Fannie May Salter and Ida Lewis.
B. Fannie May Salter worked as a lighthouse keeper for twenty-two years, but Ida Lewis did
so for even longer: fifty-four years.
C. Fannie May Salter and Ida Lewis were both lighthouse keepers at a time when such a
person was needed to operate a lighthouse.
D. Before automation, lighthouse keepers like Fannie May Salter, who served for twenty-two
years, and Ida Lewis were crucial to ensuring safe navigation for watercraft.
Answer: B
27.
The student wants to emphasize a difference between the meters of the two poems. Which
choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
The meter of a poem is the rhythmic structure or pattern of accents in its lines.
Alliterative meter is structured by a pattern of repeated sounds.
Quantitative meter is structured by a pattern of long and short syllables.
The Old English poem Widsith uses an alliterative meter.
The Sanskrit poem Meghadūta uses a quantitative meter.
A. The Sanskrit poem Meghadūta uses a quantitative meter, while the meter of the Old
English poem Widsith uses a pattern of long and short syllables. 
B. The poem Widsith is written in Old English, but Meghadūta is written in Sanskrit. 
C. Alliterative meter is a pattern of repeated sounds, but quantitative meter is a rhythmic
structure or pattern of accents.
D. The lines of the poem Meghadūta use a pattern of long and short syllables, whereas
Widsithʼs lines use a pattern of repeated sounds.
Answer: D
Section: Section 1, Module 2: Reading and Writing, Difficulty:
hard (27 questions)
1.
Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase?
Louisa May Alcott contributed A Modern Mephistopheles to the No Name Series, a collection
of novels published anonymously between 1876 and 1887. The series challenged readers to
guess authorsʼ identities, reflecting the eraʼs fascination for literary mystery. This ______
approach to publishing allowed Alcott to experiment beyond her established style.
A. preliminary
B. clandestine
C. unequivocal
D. inexplicable
Answer: B
2.
Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase?
Though copies of The Adventures of Indiana Jones in Wenceslas Square in Prague on
January 16, 1989—an underground computer game that was created anonymously in 1989
as an act of political protest against the authoritarian regime of what was then
Czechoslovakia—were originally distributed ______, the game is now readily available online
for anyone to play.
A. surreptitiously
B. disingenuously
C. succinctly
D. dispassionately
Answer: A
3.
Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase?
In their study of caterpillars in fragmented forests (formerly contiguous forests that have
been broken into isolated patches by roads or other interruptions), Riley M. Anderson et al.
stress that although fragmentation inevitably ______ alterations to local ecological
processes, the changes will likely have a greater impact on Nola triquetrana, a specialist
feeding on a limited number of plant species, than on a species like Himella intractata that
feeds on several.
A. engenders
B. preempts
C. subsumes
D. attenuates
Answer: A
4.
Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase?
Yuen Yuen Ang et al. argue that merely tallying the number of patents filed per year ______
the degree of innovation occurring: truly novel patents—those, like a 2011 patent for an
automated navigation system for planes, that combine previously unaffiliated technological
domains—are vastly outnumbered by nonnovel patents (e.g., a 2008 patent for a method of
making soup).
A. belies
B. portends
C. thwarts
D. maligns
Answer: A
5.
Which choice best states the function of the underlined sentence?
Magical realism, a style that weaves fantasy into realistic narratives, coalesced in Latin
America in the 1960s. It is associated with Gabriel García Márquez, whose One Hundred
Years of Solitude is a key text. The style was embraced by Mexican American writers, such
as Ana Castillo, whose So Far from God draws on Mexican folktales as a source of fantasy.
Yet The Mixquiahuala Letters, also by Castillo, features no fantastical plot events. And
despite his popular reputation, García Márquez himself wrote several works of strict realism,
including Chronicle of a Death Foretold.
A. To identify an unrecognized point of similarity between Chronicle of a Death Foretold and
So Far from God
B. To suggest that Mexican American authors who were influenced by García Márquez may
have, in turn, influenced him
C. To refute the possible impression that García Márquez conformed to magical realism in all
of his works
D. To challenge the common assumption that One Hundred Years of Solitude is superior to
realist works by García Márquez
Answer: C
6.
Which choice best describes the relationship between the two texts?
Text 1
Sidebells wintergreen (Orthilia secunda) plants are native to Alaska, where harsh conditions
have historically impeded potential invasive species. As the boreal climate has warmed in
recent decades, however, Siberian peashrub (Caragana arborescens) plants have
established themselves in Alaska. Previous research conducted in non-boreal ecosystems
has documented warming-induced increases in summer temperatures benefiting invasive
species more than native species.
Text 2
At a site near Fairbanks, Alaska, Christa Mulder and Katie Spellman tracked O. secunda and
C. arborescens, along with other native and invasive species, over several years. They
observed that although average summer temperatures were substantially higher in some
years of the study than in others, neither O. secunda nor C. arborescens showed any
significant variation in summer growth patterns from year to year.
A. Text 2 describes a methodology that helps researchers avoid a problem encountered in
the studies discussed in Text 1.
B. Text 2 explains a study that suggests an alternative explanation for the trend observed in
the research discussed in Text 1. 
C. Text 2 discusses an observation that challenges the validity of the findings described in
Text 1. 
D. Text 2 presents a finding that casts doubt on the generalizability of the research
discussed in Text 1.
Answer: D
7.
What does the text most directly suggest about translation apps?
Linguist John McWhorter asserts that translation apps for smartphones and computers are—
despite generally failing to convey many nuances—increasingly obviating the need to learn
new languages. Advances in language processing technology have greatly boosted the
utility of these apps for perfunctory tasks, like inquiring about an item on a menu, and
passing interactions; be that as it may, richer communication (e.g., in business dealings or
meaningful personal exchanges) often hinges on conversational patterns and gradations of
meaning.
A. They have improved remarkably over time but remain insufficient to support the
complexity called for in certain interactions.
B. They are coming to be embraced by international tourists but are viewed with skepticism
by many business professionals.
C. They are becoming simpler to use but are inconsistent in how comprehensively they
cover different languages.
D. They have gained impressive capabilities but continue to be widely viewed as inadequate
for most practical purposes.
Answer: A
8.
Information in the text best supports which statement about Mohol bushbabies?
Optimal foraging theory (OFT) holds that animalsʼ foraging behaviors reflect cost-benefit
trade-offs that vary by species and with dynamic ecological circumstances. One such
circumstance is lunar intensity, which Mary V. Price and colleagues found to be negatively
associated with foraging by white-throated woodrats but Simon Kenneth Bearder and
colleagues found to be positively associated with foraging by Mohol bushbabies. This
discrepancy is explicable in terms of OFT: the bushbabiesʼ greater reliance on vision means
that higher lunar intensity benefits them more than it benefits the woodrats.  
A. If increased lunar intensity imposed the same costs on the bushbabies that it imposes on
white-throated woodrats, there would be no association between lunar intensity and the
bushbabiesʼ foraging. 
B. If the advantages that the bushbabies gain from increased lunar intensity explain the
change in their foraging behavior, those advantages are likely shared by some other species
that are not heavily reliant on vision.
C. If increased lunar intensity creates any disadvantages for the bushbabies, those
disadvantages are more than compensated for by the advantages that the bushbabies gain.
D. If the bushbabiesʼ foraging behavior under increased lunar intensity actually reflects a
cost-benefit trade-off, their behavior should be more similar to that of white-throated
woodrats than it is. 
Answer: C
9.
Which choice most effectively uses data from the table to complete the text?
Effect of Various Soil Treatments on Mean Pineapple Fruit Weight and Size
Soil treatmentWeight
(grams)Length
(centimeters)Diameter
(centimeters)
Control825.96.1413.63
Biochar915.76.5613.63
Compost864.86.1513.22
Biochar and
compost979.36.7613.68
Biochar and NPK
fertilizer1032.16.7813.96
Working in Ghana, Emmanuel Hanyabui and colleagues compared the impact on pineapple
growth of different combinations of soil additives, including NPK fertilizer (an inorganic
fertilizer containing nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium), organic compost, and biochar (a
carbon-rich material produced from organic waste matter). Based on data in the table,
pineapple farmers with no access to inorganic soil additives would likely increase the weight
and size of their fruits by the greatest amount by using ______
A. biochar and NPK fertilizer.
B. biochar and compost.
C. biochar alone.
D. compost alone. 
Answer: B
10.
Which choice best presents a conclusion about the habits of New Yearʼs resolution makers
that is best supported by information in the text and the table?
Percentages of New Year's Resolution Makers Who Make Certain
Kinds of Resolutions
Type of resolutionAge 18-29Age 30-49Age 50-64Age 65+
Health and exercise79807976
Finances68635647
Personal relationships63535852
Hobbies 65535145
A Pew Research Center survey conducted in January 2024 found that three out of ten US
adults make at least one New Yearʼs resolution (a promise for the year ahead), while half of
those who make a resolution make more than one. The survey asked participants what kinds
of resolutions they made and separated them into several categories. The table presents
percentages of people who make particular kinds of New Yearʼs resolutions among those
who choose to make them, indexed by age bracket.
A. The majority of US adults who make resolutions related to health and exercise also make
resolutions in multiple additional categories.
B. Resolution makers between the ages of 50 and 64 are more likely to make resolutions
related to personal relationships and less likely to make resolutions related to finances than
resolution makers between the ages of 30 and 49 are.
C. Among all US adults, people become less likely to make New Yearʼs resolutions as they
age, regardless of the type of resolution.
D. Resolution makers between the ages of 18 and 29 are more likely to make resolutions
about health and exercise than resolution makers between the ages of 30 and 49 are.
Answer: B
11.
Which quotation from a literary scholar would most directly support the claim in the
underlined portion of the text?
Scholars cite One Hundred Years of Solitude, the 1967 novel by Colombian author Gabriel
García Márquez, as a foundational text of magical realism, the Latin American style of fiction
in which antirealistic plot devices—often borrowed from the spiritual and narrative traditions
of Indigenous and colonial societies in the Americas—are deployed in an otherwise realistic
mode of representation typical of the modern novel. This style has exerted a decisive
influence on authors in the United States, including Toni Morrison, whose 1987 novel
Beloved resembles classic magical realist novels in its juxtaposition of literary realism with
long-established cultural traditions—namely, those of the Black American community.
A. “Much of the interest of Beloved derives from the productive tension between its
competing influences—namely, Black American cultural traditions and the magical realism of
Latin America.”
B. “The cultural traditions of the Black American community, which figure so prominently in
the magical realist tradition of Latin America, permit realistic as well as antirealistic scenarios
—much as Beloved does.”
C. “Even though Beloved alternates between realistic and antirealistic modes of
representation, the influence of Black American cultural traditions remains constant
throughout the novel.”
D. “Although much of Beloved conforms to the conventions of realistic fiction, Toni Morrison
also incorporates elements drawn from Black American cultural traditions that transcend and
expose the limitations of realism.”
Answer: D
12.
Which choice most logically completes the text?
Duckweed is a small freshwater plant that is often exposed to zinc pollution. Sofia Vámos
and colleagues collected samples of four duckweed ecotypes (genetically and
geographically distinct populations within a species), along with water from each ecotypeʼs
habitat. Hypothesizing that each ecotype is adapted to its local conditions in ways that
bolster its growth and resistance to pollutants, the researchers grew each ecotype in all four
water samples and with three levels of zinc (none, low, high). (The researchers did not
replicate local differences in light or temperature.) They found that the ecotypes grew
equally well in all four water samples and that adding zinc consistently enhanced growth,
regardless of concentration, suggesting that ______
A. if each ecotype is indeed locally adapted as the researchers hypothesized, those
adaptations are to other environmental conditions than the water each ecotype inhabits.
B. while the ecotypes are genetically and geographically distinct, those differences do not
represent adaptations to local environmental conditions.
C. there may not be significant differences in the water that each ecotype inhabits, but there
are significant differences in each ecotypeʼs resistance to zinc pollution.
D. although the researchersʼ hypothesis does not appear to be supported, this may be
because the levels of zinc exposure the plants in the experiment received did not match their
exposure in their natural environments.
Answer: A
13.
Which choice most logically completes the text?
As juveniles, all white-necked jacobin hummingbirds display vibrantly blue head plumage;
when they enter adulthood, males retain these blue feathers and most females molt to a
drab green hue. However, 28% of adult female jacobins remain identical in coloration to
juveniles and adult males. Based on field observations in Panama, a team of researchers
reports that while adult males show a clear preference in mate selection for adult females
with drab green feathers, they also engage in more antagonistic behavior toward those adult
females than toward blue-feathered adult females when competing for resources. Therefore,
the team hypothesizes that ______
A. the percentage of blue-feathered females will increase until fewer than half of adult
female jacobins are green-feathered.
B. the occurrence of blue head plumage in adult female jacobins is driven by one or more
factors not associated with mate attraction.
C. coloration prevents green-feathered adult female jacobins from distinguishing between
adult males and blue-feathered adult females.
D. adult male jacobins do not act antagonistically toward juvenile jacobins with blue head
plumage when competing for resources.
Answer: B
14.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English?
In Puerto Rico, itʼs not unusual for a city or town to be known by a nickname that
corresponds to one of its notable features, like landscape, climate, famous residents, or
chief export. For example, the Puerto Rican municipality of Manatí is well known for its
history as a cultural center in the early 20th ______ this distinction has earned it the fitting
nickname of “the Athens of Puerto Rico.”
A. century and
B. century
C. century,
D. century;
Answer: D
15.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English?
Working on an unimaginably small scale of billionths of a meter, nanoengineers have found
ways to leverage palladium ______ to facilitate energy generation in fuel cells.
A. nanoparticles properties
B. nanoparticleʼs properties
C. nanoparticlesʼ propertiesʼ
D. nanoparticlesʼ properties
Answer: D
16.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English?
Bertie Marshall, a key figure in the history of steel band music in Trinidad and Tobago, made
several innovations to the steel ______ wheels so the instrument could be easily transported
during Carnival, a cover to protect the pans from the sun, and amplification so the sound of
the pans could be better heard over large crowds and other instrumentation.
A. drum,
B. drum:
C. drum
D. drum;
Answer: B
17.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English?
In a chemical equation, the value known as molar mass is useful for converting between the
mass of the reactants and the mass of the product. The liquid ______ have molar masses of
186.06 and 78.12 g/mol, respectively. 
A. compounds, hexafluorobenzene (C6F6) and benzene (C6H6),
B. compounds hexafluorobenzene (C6F6) and benzene (C6H6),
C. compounds, hexafluorobenzene (C6F6) and benzene (C6H6)
D. compounds hexafluorobenzene (C6F6) and benzene (C6H6)
Answer: D
18.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English?
The statement “all tarantulas are venomous” is scientific because it could be proved false by
a single observation to the contrary, according to Karl Popper. Popperʼs theory ______ that
scientific hypotheses must be refutable, termed the criterion of falsifiability, rejects the
confirmationist position that uses verifiability as the standard for scientific hypotheses.
A. was dictating
B. dictated
C. dictating
D. dictates
Answer: D
19.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English?
Geologist and scholar John Bostock joined with 55 other prominent British writers in 1837 to
petition the US Congress for greater copyright protections. This cadre of renowned ______
that American publishersʼ appropriation of their work caused, in the words of the petition,
“deep and extensive injuries...on their reputation and property,” helped sow the seeds for the
International Copyright Act of 1891.
A. authors asserted
B. authors were asserting
C. authors, had asserted
D. authors, asserting
Answer: D
20.
Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition?
In 2003, some 393 years after Galileo Galilei and Simon Marius independently discovered
Jupiterʼs four largest moons (Io, Europa, Ganymede, and Callisto), scientists discovered the
moon Helike in orbit around Jupiter. ______ researchers have discovered eighty moons
orbiting Jupiter.
A. To date,
B. For example,
C. In other words,
D. Rather,
Answer: A
21.
Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition?
The Hornbostel-Sachs system classifies musical instruments by how they produce sound.
For example, an instrument that is popular in Norway called the hardingfele produces sound
primarily through the vibration of its strings. ______ under the Hornbostel-Sachs system, the
hardingfele is a chordophone.
A. Instead,
B. Furthermore,
C. Thus,
D. Similarly,
Answer: C
22.
Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition?
Brain imaging research led by neuroscientist Dwaynica Greaves found that actors showed
suppressed responses in the left anterior prefrontal cortex (the portion of the brain
associated with self-awareness) when their names were called during performances; ______
the actorsʼ responses were normal in nonacting contexts. These findings suggest that when
embodying characters, performers may temporarily set aside their personal identities. 
A. conversely,
B. specifically,
C. likewise,
D. thus,
Answer: A
23.
Which choice most effectively uses information from the given sentences to explain the 50
Completers hiking challenge to a new audience?
The Highpointers Club is a hiking club.
One of the main goals among club members is to reach the highest points in all fifty US
states.
Those who achieve this are called 50 Completers.
In Suk Han became a 50 Completer on November 15, 2013.
The highest point in West Virginia is Spruce Knob, at 4,863 ft.
The highest point in Colorado is Mount Elbert, at 14,440 ft.
A. Hikers aiming to count themselves among the 50 Completers must reach not only West
Virginiaʼs Spruce Knob but also the even higher peak of Mount Elbert in Colorado.
B. Not until after you have reached the highest points in all fifty US states—including Spruce
Knob in West Virginia and Mount Elbert in Colorado—can you include yourself among the 50
Completers of the Highpointers Club.
C. If you are looking for a new hiking challenge, consider joining the Highpointers Club, as
did In Suk Han, a hiker who successfully reached the highest point in every US state.
D. On November 15, 2013, In Suk Han finally completed the feat of reaching the highest
point in all fifty US states, including Spruce Knob in West Virginia and Mount Elbert in
Colorado.
Answer: B
24.
Which choice most effectively uses information from the given sentences to introduce Marie
Hall to a new audience?
Antonio Stradivari (1644–1737) was an Italian instrument maker.
He made about 1,000 violins in his lifetime.
Musicians prize his Stradivarius violins for their famed sound quality.
The Marie Hall Stradivarius is named for former owner Marie Hall, a British violinist.
A. Of the 1,000 or so violins Antonio Stradivari made, only about 500 exist today.
B. Marie Hall was a British violinist who once owned a Stradivarius violin.
C. The Marie Hall Stradivarius is named after Marie Hall.
D. Born in 1644, Antonio Stradivari was an Italian instrument maker whose violins are famous
for their quality.
Answer: B
25.
The student wants to support Brownerʼs claim about Louis Ballardʼs compositions. Which
choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
Louis Ballard was a classical composer and citizen of the Quapaw Tribe.
Ballardʼs composition Desert Trilogy was nominated for the Pulitzer Prize in music in
1971.
His composition Washington Festival Suite incorporates a Pueblo log drum, a
traditional Native instrument.
Ethnomusicologist Tara Browner claims that Ballardʼs compositions rely on elements
originating within Native musical traditions.
A. According to Browner, composer Louis Ballard, who wrote Desert Trilogy, relies on
elements with origins in Native musical traditions.
B. Browner posits that Louis Ballardʼs compositions rely on elements originating within
Native musical traditions; Washington Festival Suite affirms this assertion, incorporating a
Pueblo log drum.
C. Classical composer Louis Ballard, who wrote Washington Festival Suite, was nominated
for the Pulitzer Prize in music in 1971. 
D. Browner claims that Louis Ballardʼs compositions, one of which was nominated for the
Pulitzer Prize, rely on elements originating within Native musical traditions.
Answer: B
26.
The student wants to present the studyʼs research methods. Which choice most effectively
uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
Suzanne K. Birner led a study analyzing rocks on the seafloor to better understand the
history of Earthʼs mantle.
Rock samples were collected from two seafloor ridges.
The researchers determined the samplesʼ period of formation (the Archean eon) and
oxidation level (extremely low).
High temperatures in the Archean likely caused the rocksʼ low oxidation.
Birnerʼs team suggests the oxidation of Earthʼs mantle has remained stable over time,
contrary to previous theories.
The findings help explain the unique conditions that allowed life to develop on Earth.
A. To further analyze the origins of Earthʼs unique conditions, researchers focused on rocks
from the Archean eon, when Earthʼs temperatures were extremely high.
B. Birnerʼs team analyzed the age and oxidation levels of rock samples collected from two
seafloor ridges.
C. Birner led a study to better understand the history of Earthʼs mantle and explain the
conditions that allowed life to develop.
D. By studying these ancient rocks, the team aimed to challenge previous theories about
changes in Earthʼs mantle over time.
Answer: B
27.
The student wants to place the 1821 Declaration of Independence in the context of Valleʼs
changing political beliefs. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the
notes to accomplish this goal?
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
Leaders of the Province of Guatemala proclaimed independence for Central America
from the Spanish Empire on September 15, 1821.
The accompanying Declaration of Independence was written by Honduran scholar and
politician José Cecilio del Valle.
The 1812 Spanish Constitution had provided some degree of independence for Central
America, but it was repealed by the Spanish king in 1814.
Valle, a loyal advisor to the Spanish Empireʼs administrators in Central America, had
long opposed independence.
He changed his mind after Colonel Rafael del Riegoʼs 1820 revolt, which demanded the
return of rights lost in 1814.
A. A change in Valleʼs political beliefs that occurred when the Spanish king repealed the 1812
constitution led to Valle writing Central Americaʼs Declaration of Independence.
B. Long an opponent of Central American independence, Valle changed his mind after an
1820 revolt and wrote the 1821 declaration.
C. The writing of Central Americaʼs Declaration of Independence may not have happened
were it not for Colonel Riegoʼs 1820 revolt. 
D. Colonel Riegoʼs revolt was the inspiration that Valle, a long-standing opponent of Central
American independence, needed to change his political beliefs.
Answer: B
Section: Section 2, Module 1: Math, Difficulty: unknown (22
questions)
1.
If , what is the value of ?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: D
2.
In the figure, line  is parallel to line , and line  intersects both lines. What is the value of ?
A.
B.9x+4=67 90x+40
7
70
130
670
p r t x
36
72
C.
D.
Answer: B
3.
A length of  meters is equal to how many decimeters? 
Answer: 4500
4.
The equation   gives the perimeter of a rectangular garden that has length ,
in feet, and width , in feet. The width of the garden is  feet. What is the length, in feet, of
the garden?
Answer: 15
5.
The relationship between the variables  and  is defined by an exponential equation. When
, the value of  is , and for every increase in the value of  by , the corresponding
value of  increases by  of its previous value. Which equation represents this
relationship?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: A
6.
The function  is defined by . What is the value of  when ?
Answer: .0138180
252
450 (1 meter=10 decimeters)
58=2x+2y x
y 14
xy
x=0 y40 x1
y 50%
y=40(1.50)x
y=40(1.05)x
y=50(1.40)x
y=50(1.04)x
f f(x)=1
8xf(x)x=9
7.
The function  is defined by . What is the y-intercept of the graph of
 in the xy-plane?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: A
8.
The solution to the given system of equations is . What is the value of ?
Answer: 14
9.
The length of a side of square X is  centimeters. The area of rectangle Y is  square
centimeters. What is the total area, in square centimeters, of square X and rectangle Y?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: B
10.
During hibernation, American black bears do not eat or replenish calories. A certain black
bear weighed  pounds when entering hibernation and lost weight at a mean rate of f f(x)=3x−1
4
y=f(x)
(0,−1
4)
(0,−3)
(0,3)
(0,4)
x+6y=28
6y=14
(x,y) x
9 32
145
113
82
81
293 0.9
pounds per day. At this rate, how many days after entering hibernation would the black bear
weigh  pounds?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: C
11.
The complete graph of  is shown. For how many values of  does ?
A.
One
B.
Two
C.
Three230
57
63
70
207
y=f(x) xf(x)=0
D.
Four
Answer: C
12.
The given equation relates the real numbers , , and , where . Which equation
correctly expresses  in terms of  and ?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: D
13.
How many distinct real solutions does the given equation have?
A.
Zero
B.
Exactly one
C.
Exactly two
D.
Infinitely many
Answer: Cb2+4c=7d
bcdd>4
7c
b cd
b=7d+4c
2
b=7d−4c
2
b=±√7d+4c
b=±√7d−4c
x2−81
16=0
14.
Triangles  and  are shown. Triangle  is dilated by a scale factor of  to
form triangle . If the length of  is , what is the length of ?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: D
15.
What is the radius of the circle in the xy-plane defined by ?  
Answer: 19
16.
In the xy-plane, which of the following does NOT contain any points that are part of the
solution set to ?
A.
The x-axis
B.
The region where  and 
C.ABCA′B′C′ABC 6
A′B′C′AB
¯18 A′B′
¯
3
6
24
108
(x+3)2+(y+9)2=361
5x−7y>35
x>0y>0
The region where  and 
D.
The region where  and 
Answer: D
17.
The table shows the distribution of people in a certain city by age group.
Age group Proportion
Less than  years old
– years old
– years old
Greater than  years old
If a person in this city is selected at random, which of the following is closest to the
probability of selecting a person who is greater than  years old, given that the person is at
least  years old?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: B
18.
Line  is defined by . Line  is perpendicular to line  in the xy-plane.
What is the slope of line ?
A.
B.
C.
D.x<0y<0
x<0y>0
18 26%
1840 21%
4165 29%
65 24%
65
18
0.24
0.32
0.50
0.92
h1
2x+1
9y−54=0j h
j
−9
2
−2
9
9
2
2
9
Answer: D
19.
, , , , , , 
For the given data set, the data values are listed in ascending order, where , , and  are
constants. For this data set, the mean is , the median is , and the range is . What is
the value of ?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: C
20.
In triangle  shown, . Which expression represents the length of ?
A.
B.
C.
D.a2629b3147c
abc
36 29 72
c
54
72
81
98
QRSQR<RS QS
¯
37cosQ
37sinQ
37
cosQ
37
sinQ
Answer: D
21.
How many times does the graph of the given equation in the xy-plane cross the x-axis,
where , , and  are positive constants such that  and ?
A.
Zero
B.
One
C.
Two
D.
Three
Answer: B
22.
A certain town has an area of  square miles. What is the area, in square yards, of this
town? 
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: Dy=9(a
7)x+c−b
abc a>7  b>c
4.29
(1 mile=1,760 yards)
410
7,550
722,051
13,288,704
Section: Section 2, Module 2: Math, Difficulty: easy (22
questions)
1.
What is  of ?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: C
2.
A biologist is studying the growth of a sunflower plant. The graph models the height , in
centimeters, of the sunflower plant after  weeks of observation.
12345678x102030405060708090100110120130140y
O
According to the model, what is the estimated height, in centimeters, of the sunflower plant
after  weeks of observation?
A.
B.50% 480
720
480
240
48
y
x
3
3
10
C.
D.
Answer: D
3.
For a psychology class, a student's research paper needs to have no more than 
words. If a student has already written  words, what is the maximum number of
additional words the student can write for the research paper?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: D
4.
During a -day period, a weather station recorded a total of  inches of rain and snow.
During this period, the weather station recorded  inches of rain and  inches of snow.
Which equation represents this situation?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: A
5.
One of the two equations in a system of linear equations is given. The system has infinitely
many solutions. If the second equation in this system is , where  and  are30
60
5,000
3,051
8,051
5,000
3,051
1,949
6 2.6
r s
r+s=2.6
r−s=2.6
s−r=2.6
rs=2.6
y=5x+17
y=mx+bmb
constants, what is the value of ? 
Answer: 17
6.
What value of  is the solution to the equation ?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: D
7.
The equation  gives the total amount of money , in dollars, that Janna
plans to save  weeks after she starts to save. What is the total amount of money, in dollars,
she plans to save in  weeks?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: B
8.
A triathlon is a multisport race consisting of three different consecutive events. A triathlon
participant plans to complete the cycling event with an average speed of  yards per
hour. What is this average speed, in miles per hour? 
Answer: 16.2
9.b
p p−17=1
1
17
16
17
18
d=25w+100 d
w
10
300
350
400
450
28,512
(1 mile=1,760 yards)
Triangle  is similar to triangle , where angle  corresponds to angle , and
angles and  are right angles. If , what is the value of ?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: A
10.
For a project, Kayla recorded the heights of  people in her neighborhood. The histogram
summarizes the heights, in inches (in), of these  people in Kayla's neighborhood. The first
bar represents people with a height of at least  but less than . The second bar
represents people with a height of at least  but less than , and so on.
How many of these  people in Kayla's neighborhood had a height of at least  but less
than ?
Answer: 6
11.
The table shows values of  and their corresponding values of  for three points on line  in
the xy-plane.ABC DEF A D
CF cosB=1
24cosE
1
24
1
25
23
24
24
25
17
17
50 in 53 in
53 in 56 in
17 50 in
56 in
x y j
xy
0−10
1−4
Line  also lies in the xy-plane and is defined by the equation . At what point 
do lines  and  intersect?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: A
12.
The scatterplot shows the relationship between the square footage of  clothing stores and
their annual sales, in millions of dollars. According to the trend shown by the data, which of
the following is the best prediction for the annual sales, in millions of dollars, of a clothing
store that is  thousand square feet?
A.
B.xy
2 2
k y=4x (x,y)
jk
(5,20)
(5,−44)
(6,24)
(6,26)
12
4
4.1
5.4
C.
D.
Answer: C
13.
In , the measures of  and  are each . What is the measure of ?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: D
14.
Which expression is equivalent to ?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: D
15.
The given expression is equivalent to , where  is a constant and . What is the value
of ?
Answer: 97.5
10.1
△FGH ∠F ∠G 53° ∠H
143°
127°
106°
74°
7xy(2x2+9y)
9x3y+16xy2
14x2y+9y
14x2y+63xy
14x3y+63xy2
27(k+5)
3(k+5)
cc k>−5
c
16.
The graph of   in the xy-plane is shifted up  units. What is an equation of the
resulting graph?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: D
17.
The function  gives the predicted intensity of a beam , in number
of photons in the beam,  millimeters below the surface of a certain material. What is the
best interpretation of ?
A.
A beam at the surface of the material has a predicted intensity of  photons in the beam.
B.
A beam at the surface of the material has a predicted intensity of  photons in the beam.
C.
A beam  millimeters below the surface of the material has a predicted intensity of 
photons in the beam.
D.
A beam  millimeters below the surface of the material has a predicted intensity of 
photons in the beam.
Answer: C
18.y=(1
9)x+1 4
y=(1
9)(x+4)+1
y=(1
9)(x−4)+1
y=4(1
9)x+1
y=(1
9)x+5
f(x)=1,200(0.5)x
17 f(x)
x
f(17)=600
17
600
17 600
600 1,200
x2+(√k−3)x+42=0
In the given equation,  is a constant. The equation has exactly one real solution. What is the
value of ?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: A
19.
In the xy-plane, the graph of  intersects the graph of  at two points.
What is the sum of the x-coordinates of the two points of intersection?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: C
20.
For the linear function ,  and . Which equation defines ?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: C
21.k
k
171
168
165
45
y=4x y=x2−45
−45
−5
4
9
hh(0)=0h(4)=3 h
h(x)=4
3x
h(x)=4
3x+4
h(x)=3
4x
h(x)=3
4x+3
What is a positive solution to the given equation?
Answer: 12
22.
What is one of the solutions to the given equation?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: B
Section: Section 2, Module 2: Math, Difficulty: hard (22
questions)
1.
Zuri has a goal to run at least  miles per week while training for a race. This week, she has
run  miles. If  represents the additional number of miles Zuri needs to run this week to
meet her goal, which inequality represents this situation?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: D
2.(x−16)(x−12)(x+9)(x+19)=0
x2−2x=28
√28
1+√29
29
28+√2
16
4x
4−x≤16
4+x≤16
4−x≥16
4+x≥16
In the figure shown, line  intersects lines  and . If , which additional piece of
information is sufficient to prove that lines  and  are parallel?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: B
3.
Number of food ticketsTotal amount paidk rsw=147
rs
x=33
y=147
w+y=180
y+z=180
10 $44.00
15 $51.50
25 $66.50
At a fundraiser, a family pays a fixed entrance fee. They then purchase food tickets, which
each have the same cost. The table shows the relationship between the number of food
tickets, , that are purchased and the total amount paid , in dollars, for both the entrance
fee and the food tickets. Which equation represents the relationship between  and ?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: A
4.
A group of  gardeners recorded data on the germination rates of their tomato crop for one
growing season. The scatterplot shows the relationship between the number of tomato
seeds planted, , and the number of tomato seeds that germinated, , for each of the
gardeners. A line of best fit is also shown. 
100 200 300 400 500x100200300400500y
O
Which of the following is the best interpretation of the slope of the line of best fit in this
context?
A.
The number of tomato seeds planted is predicted to increase by  seeds every  days.x y
xy
y=3
2x+29
y=3
2x−56
y=2
3x+112
3
y=2
3x+58
3
10
x y
60 100
B.
The number of tomato seeds planted is predicted to increase by  seeds every  days.
C.
The number of tomato seeds that germinate is predicted to increase by  seeds for every
additional  tomato seeds that are planted.
D.
The number of tomato seeds that germinate is predicted to increase by  seeds for every
additional  tomato seeds that are planted.  
Answer: C
5.
The graph of  in the xy-plane is a line. What is the slope of the line?
Answer: -2
6.
The functions , , and  are defined as shown. If ,
where , , and  are constants, what is the value of ?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: B
7.300 100
60
100
300
100
2x+y=11
f(x)=2x+3
g(x)=7x−2
h(x)=5x+6
fgh f(x)⋅g(x)−h(x)=ax2+bx+c
abc b
−5
12
20
22
The function  is defined by , and , where  is a constant. What is
the value of ?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: A
8.
The table shows values of  and their corresponding values of  for three points on line  in
the xy-plane.
Line  also lies in the xy-plane and is defined by the equation . At what point 
do lines  and  intersect?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: A
9.
The function  estimates an object's height, in feet, above the ground  seconds after the
object is dropped, where  is a constant. The function estimates that the object is  feetf f(x)=x+11
5f(a)=−18a
a
−101
−79
−79
5
−7
5
x y j
xy
0−10
1−4
2 2
k y=4x (x,y)
jk
(5,20)
(5,−44)
(6,24)
(6,26)
h(t)=−16t2+b
h t
b 19.36
above the ground when it is dropped at . How many seconds after being dropped does
the function estimate the object will hit the ground?
Answer: 1.1
10.
How many solutions does the given equation have?
A.
Zero
B.
One
C.
Two
D.
Infinitely many
Answer: A
11.
The function  is defined by , where  and  are positive constants. The
graph of   in the xy-plane passes through the points  and . What is
the value of ?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: Bt=0
|4x−3|=−9
h h(x)=ax+bab
y=h(x) (0,10) (2,13)
ab
13
18
20
26
12.
A circle has center , and points  and  lie on the circle. The measure of arc  is 
and the length of arc  is  units. What is the length, in units, of the radius of the circle?
Answer: 16
13.
The function  is defined by . For any positive integer , the value of 
 is  less than the value of . What is the value of ?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: D
14.
In the given equation,  is a constant. The equation has exactly one real solution. What is the
value of ?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: A
15.P AB AB45°
AB4π
f f(x)=56(0.19)xn
f(n)p% f(n−1) p
19
44
56
81
x2+(√k−3)x+42=0
k
k
171
168
165
45
x2+y2=36
y=mx+b
4
In the given system of equations,  and  are negative constants. In the xy-plane, the
graphs of the equations in the given system intersect at the point , where .
Which expression represents the value of ?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: D
16.
A biologist mixed a solution that is  sodium chloride by mass with a solution that is
 sodium chloride by mass to obtain a new solution, which has a mass of  grams and
contains  grams of sodium chloride. How many grams of  sodium chloride solution
did the biologist use?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: C
17.
For data set A, the table summarizes the distribution of the number of pieces of mail
received by a business each day during a period of  days.
Pieces of mailDaysmb
(−5,y)y<0
b
−5m
4+√11
4
5m
4−√11
4
−20m+4√11
20m−4√11
0.3%
0.15% 80
0.21 0.3%
0.14
20
60
79.86
11
0 2
3 2
4 2
5 2
6 1
Pieces of mailDays
The data value  is removed from data set A to create data set B, which consists of the
remaining  data values. Which statement best compares the median of data set A and the
median of data set B?
A.
The median of data set B is less than the median of data set A.
B.
The median of data set B is greater than the median of data set A.
C.
The median of data set B is equal to the median of data set A.
D.
There is not enough information to compare the medians of the two data sets.
Answer: C
18.
An engineer connects resistors in series, where the resistors in the series have a total
resistance of  ohms. In this series, there are  resistors of type A, which each have a
resistance of  ohms, and  resistors of type B, which each have a resistance of  ohms. The
given equation represents this situation. According to this equation, what is the positive
difference between the value of  and the value of ?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: D7 1
13 1
13
10
x
5+y
9=47
45
47
45x
a y b
a b
47
4
47
45
4
45
19.
In the given equation,  is a constant. The equation has exactly one solution. What is the
value of ?
Answer: 36
20.
The table gives the areas and perimeters of two similar rectangles, where  is a constant.
Area (square inches)Perimeter (inches)
Rectangle A
Rectangle B
What is the value of ?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: D
21.
The mass of object A is  of the mass of object B, and the mass of object A is 
of the mass of object C. If the mass of object C is  of the mass of object B, what is the
value of ?
Answer: 60000
22.
Which expression is a factor of ?
A.9x2+8=nx
n
n2
8
n
630 210
2,520 n
n
2,100
1,680
840
420
444% 0.740%
p%
p
y2(x−3)−25(x−3)3
y(x−3)
B.
C.
D.
Answer: D(x−5)(x−3)
y+x−3
y+5x−15
