所有分组
1. Section 1, Module 1: Reading and Writing / unknown (27)
2. Section 1, Module 2: Reading and Writing / easy (21)
3. Section 1, Module 2: Reading and Writing / hard (27)
4. Section 2, Module 1: Math / unknown (22)
5. Section 2, Module 2: Math / easy (14)
6. Section 2, Module 2: Math / hard (22)
Section: Section 1, Module 1: Reading and Writing, Difficulty:
unknown (27 questions)
1.
Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase?
Scientists have used machine learning tools to study elephant sounds, uncovering a
sophisticated communication system. The tools ______ unique patterns in the rumbling
sounds elephants make. The scientists claim that these patterns are specific calls the
elephants use for individuals, similar to names. 
A. created
B. corrected
C. detected
D. scattered
Answer: C
2.
As used in the text, what does the word “considered” most nearly mean?
The following text is from Chinua Achebeʼs 1964 novel Arrow of God. The novel is set in
Nigeria in the 1920s. Ezeulu, who is the religious leader for several villages, announces when
the annual yam harvest can begin.
Whenever Ezeulu considered the immensity of his power over the year and the
crops and, therefore, over the people he wondered if it was real. It was true he
named the day for the feast of the Pumpkin Leaves and for the New Yam feast;
but he did not choose it. He was merely a watchman. His power was no more than
the power of a child over a goat that was said to be his.
©1964 by Chinua Achebe
A. Pondered
B. Anticipated
C. Allowed
D. Respected
Answer: A
3.
As used in the text, what does the word “traces” most nearly mean?
The following text is adapted from John Matheusʼs 1925 short story “Fog.”
The fog extended its tentacles over city and river, gradually obliterating traces of
familiar landscapes. At five-thirty the old Panhandle bridge, supported by
massive sandstone pillars, stalwart, as when erected fifty years before to serve a
generation now passed behind the portals of life, had become a spectral outline
against the sky.
A. Debris
B. Copies
C. Indications
D. Remembrances
Answer: C
4.
Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase?
Microplastics are a common pollutant in large masses of water like glaciers. High
concentrations and ______ among particles—variations in size, shape, and material—make it
onerous to comprehensively classify the microplastics in a water sample, so Ojeda-Benítez
et al. are exploring a device to help quickly and accurately identify certain characteristics. 
A. restraints
B. inconsistencies
C. incompatibilities
D. disruptions
Answer: B
5.
As used in the text, what does the word “consideration” most nearly mean?
The following text is adapted from Henry Jamesʼs 1881 novel The Portrait of a Lady.
Everything Osmond did was pose—pose so subtly considered that if one were not
on the lookout one mistook it for impulse. Ralph had never met a man who lived
so much in the land of consideration. His tastes, his studies, his
accomplishments, his collections, were all for a purpose.
A. Deference
B. Calculation
C. Indecision
D. Courtesy
Answer: B
6.
Which choice best describes the function of the underlined portion in the text as a whole?
Adult glass eels can be found off the coast of Maine, but the eels begin their lives in the
Sargasso Sea, a biodiverse area in the North Atlantic Ocean where they are born and later
return to breed. Though biologists believe they have identified the general area in the
Sargasso Sea that is crucial to the endangered eelsʼ survival, little is yet known about how
the animals spawn there. Scientists believe that solving the mystery will lead to better
conservation of glass eels and their habitat, helping in turn to sustain several other species
that rely on them as a food source.
A. It presents a finding from a study that identifies the circumstances required to ensure the
survival of glass eels.
B. It suggests that scientists are more concerned about other species than about glass eelsʼ
habitat.
C. It indicates that the benefit of understanding glass eelsʼ spawning behavior extends
beyond the eels.
D. It discusses a role that glass eels and other species serve in supporting the ecosystem of
the Sargasso Sea.
Answer: C
7.
Which choice best describes the overall structure of the text?
Tomi Adeyemiʼs first published work, the inventive West African–inspired fantasy novel
Children of Blood and Bone, has intriguing things to say about the relationship between
identity and power. Adeyemi works in a decades-long tradition going back to writers such as
Samuel Delany and Octavia Butler, who wove cultural elements of the Black diaspora into
their science fiction and fantasy in a movement known as Afrofuturism. At its core, the
movement is characterized by speculation, not just about distant futures or other planets but
also about alternate versions of our shared past. Afrofuturismʼs meditations on authority
reinvigorate the creative potential of fiction.
A. It notes the political stance of an author, compares that authorʼs book to other earlier
works, and then analyzes the influence of political events on the book.
B. It praises a newly published author, compares that author with others who might appear
superficially similar, and then points out the features of that authorʼs work that make it
unique.
C. It introduces an intriguing debut work, contextualizes that work as part of an ongoing
literary tradition, and then describes important themes of that tradition.
D. It summarizes a book, describes characteristics of the artistic movement of which the
book is a part, and then points out the features the book shares with more widely read
works.
Answer: C
8.
Which statement about the Hispanic Society of America is best supported by the text?
Founded in 1904, the Hispanic Society of America showcases the arts and cultures of
Spanish-speaking and Portuguese-speaking regions around the world, including Latin
America. It is located in New York City and has more than 18,000 objects in its museum
collection. Since 2000, a number of other institutions devoted to Latino cultures have
opened in the United States. A notable example is LA Plaza de Cultura y Artes in Los
Angeles. It focuses on Mexican American art and culture.
A. Its collection includes over 18,000 objects.
B. It is no longer located in New York City.
C. It was founded after 2000. 
D. It is visited by more people than any other Latino cultural institution in the US.
Answer: A
9.
Based on the text, what is the most likely reason Walsh and colleagues chose to avoid the
method used in the spinach study?
In a 2024 study, Corrine Walsh and colleagues examined whether the composition of soil
microbial communities could affect plantsʼ flavor chemistry. Whereas Baslam et al. (2011)
showed that adding specific bacterial or fungal strains to soil can yield increased flavonoid
content in spinach crops, Walsh and team applied intact microbial communities gathered
from ecologically distinct settings across Colorado, including areas of ponderosa pine forest
and irrigated pasture, to mustard plants and evaluated the flavor compounds in the plantsʼ
seeds. This ensured that the microbial conditions in their experiment would better reflect the
variation and complexity of naturally occurring communities.
A. The composition of microorganisms in the soil in the spinach study may not have been
representative of a naturally existing composition.
B. The microbial community in the soil from the spinach study affected plantsʼ nutrition, not
their flavor chemistry.
C. The microbial community in the soil from the spinach study likely included similar species
to those in wild soils.
D. The diversity of species of microorganisms in the soil from the spinach study was already
abnormally high before the researchers added further microorganisms. 
Answer: A
10.
Which choice most effectively uses data from the table to complete the statement?
Home Console and Computer Games of the 1980s
TitleApproximate number of
units sold worldwideGenreDeveloper
Super Mario Brothers 27,460,000 platformerNintendo
EAD
Ice Hockey 2,420,000 sportsNintendo
R&D2
Where in the World Is
Carmen Sandiego?4,000,000 educationBroderbund
Tetris 43,000,000 puzzleNintendo
R&D1
A student is writing a paper on the global rise of the home video game industry during the
1980s. The student is researching the relative popularity of various genres of console and
computer games. Looking at the information in the table, the student finds that the games in
the genres of ______
A. puzzle and sports sold nearly the same number of units. 
B. platformer and education sold nearly the same number of units.
C. puzzle and platformer outsold the games in the other genres.
D. platformer and sports outsold the games in the other genres.
Answer: C
11.
Which choice most effectively uses data from the graph to complete the statement? 
45
40
35
30
25
20
15
10
5
0Adhesion strength (kPa)
0 1 2 3Mean Adhesion Strength of
Graphite and Acrylamide Gel,
at Varying Voltages
Voltage (V)
graphite–AAm pair
Wenhao Xu and colleagues demonstrated that applying a low direct current electrical field to
graphite (a conductor) and an acrylamide (AAm) gel can increase how strongly materials
adhere to each other. At some voltages, adhesion strength—as measured in kilopascals
(kPa) of stress needed to pull the materials apart—was high (more than 30 kPa). But the
mere application of a direct current electrical field with positive voltage is not sufficient to
cause increased adhesion, as evidenced by the fact that ______
A. at 0 V, mean adhesion strength was equal to 0 kPa.
B. at 3 V, mean adhesion strength reached its highest observed level at approximately 30
kPa.
C. at 2 V, mean adhesion strength was lower than it was at both 1 V and 3 V.
D. at 1 V, mean adhesion strength was approximately equal to adhesion strength at 0 V.
Answer: D
12.
Which choice most effectively uses data from the table to complete the text?
Effect of Various Soil Treatments on Mean Pineapple Fruit Weight and Size
Soil treatmentWeight
(grams)Length
(centimeters)Diameter
(centimeters)
Control825.96.1413.63
Biochar915.76.5613.63
Compost864.86.1513.22
Biochar and
compost979.36.7613.68
Biochar and NPK
fertilizer1032.16.7813.96
Working in Ghana, Emmanuel Hanyabui and colleagues compared the impact on pineapple
growth of different combinations of soil additives, including NPK fertilizer (an inorganic
fertilizer containing nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium), organic compost, and biochar (a
carbon-rich material produced from organic waste matter). Based on data in the table,
pineapple farmers with no access to inorganic soil additives would likely increase the weight
and size of their fruits by the greatest amount by using ______
A. compost alone. 
B. biochar alone.
C. biochar and compost.
D. biochar and NPK fertilizer.
Answer: C
13.
Which choice most logically completes the text?
Neuroscientist Artin Arshamian and his team sought to determine what affects a personʼs
perception of an odor as pleasant: is it culture, personal taste, or aspects of human
anatomy? The team assessed odor preferences in ten groups of people with different modes
of living (urban, agricultural, and hunter-gatherer) including urban dwellers from a large city
in Thailand and the Seri people from a small community in Mexico. The team observed that
across cultures, people generally rated odors about the same: vanillin, which smells like
vanilla, was typically rated more pleasant than galbazine, which smells like peanuts. The
team therefore concluded that ______
A. culture likely plays more of a role in a personʼs perception of how pleasant an odor is than
does human anatomy.
B. a personʼs mode of living likely doesnʼt have a large influence on that personʼs perception
of whether an odor is pleasant or unpleasant.
C. a person who lives in an urban area is more likely to encounter the odor of vanillin than is
a person who lives in a small community.
D. a person who perceives certain odors as pleasant will likely perceive the odors as roughly
equal in pleasantness.
Answer: B
14.
Which choice most logically completes the text?
Outi Tervo and team studied the effect of human-caused noise on narwhals (Monodon
monoceros), arctic marine mammals that are sensitive to acoustic changes in their
environment. Hypothesizing that elevated sound levels affect foraging among narwhals,
Tervoʼs team compared narwhal diving behaviors in natural sound conditions with those
behaviors in two human-caused sound exposure conditions—ship sounds and ship sounds
coupled with sonic pulses. Both exposure conditions resulted in significant decreases in the
number and target depth of deep dives (associated with foraging) relative to natural
conditions. However, differences between diving behaviors in the two exposure types were
negligible, a finding that could be attributed to the fact that ______
A. sonic pulses can be heard at significantly greater ocean depths than ship sounds can.
B. ship sounds contribute so much to the overall sound level that the addition of sonic
pulses has little effect on the narwhalsʼ auditory environment.
C. narwhals forage at shallower depths in the presence of ship sounds alone than in the
presence of ship sounds coupled with sonic pulses.
D. the narwhals werenʼt as sensitive to human-caused sounds as the researchers had
predicted. 
Answer: B
15.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English?
Jesse Treviñoʼs 1976 painting Mis Hermanos was featured in the Smithsonianʼs 2013
exhibition Our America: The Latino Presence in American Art. The piece ______ chosen for
the exhibition by curator E. Carmen Ramos.
A. is
B. had been
C. will be
D. is being
Answer: B
16.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English?
Mia Heavenerʼs 2019 novel Under Nushagak Bluff, which takes place in a mid-twentieth-
century rural Alaskan fishing ______ the story of three Yupʼik women who grapple with the
rise of commercial fisheries and other changes affecting their community.
A. village: tells
B. village. Tells
C. village, tells
D. village tells
Answer: C
17.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English?
Many works of the Greek historian Strabo (1st century BCE) are ______ his Geographica, a
descriptive history of the ancient world, is an extant work: it can still be read. 
A. lost. Conversely,
B. lost and conversely,
C. lost, conversely,
D. lost, and conversely
Answer: A
18.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English?
Enacted in 1944, Icelandʼs 4,089-word constitution, in contrast to Spainʼs, which was
enacted in 1978 and contains a far greater number (17,608) of words, ______ as the 2nd
shortest in the world. Such data are studied by constitutional scholars like George Tsebelis,
who can use them to draw broader conclusions.
A. have ranked
B. rank
C. are ranking
D. ranks
Answer: D
19.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English?
Working on an unimaginably small scale of billionths of a meter, nanoengineers have found
ways to leverage cerium oxide ______ to improve treatments for certain conditions related to
oxidative stress.
A. nanoparticlesʼ propertiesʼ
B. nanoparticles properties
C. nanoparticlesʼ properties
D. nanoparticleʼs properties
Answer: C
20.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English?
Recordings of electrical activity in the brain, ______ increased activity in brain areas
associated with suppressing motor functions.
A. electrograms show that while responding to hypothetical match scenarios, the most
highly skilled soccer players have
B. hypothetical match scenario responses show that the most highly skilled soccer players
captured in electrograms have
C. the most highly skilled soccer players responding to hypothetical match scenarios have
electrograms that show
D. responses to hypothetical match scenarios show that the most highly skilled soccer
players have electrograms with
Answer: A
21.
Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition?
A team led by Portuguese researcher Isabel C.F.R. Ferreira found that many species of
mushrooms contain chemicals called phenolic compounds, such as cinnamic acid and
catechin. ______ Ferreira detected cinnamic acid in Agaricus blazei mushrooms and
catechin in Lentinus edodes mushrooms.
A. For this reason,
B. However,
C. Nevertheless,
D. For example,
Answer: D
22.
Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition?
Resins play several important roles in maintaining the health of conifers and many other
kinds of trees. ______ resins quickly seal wounds, which helps prevent harmful insects and
fungi from entering trees. These sticky substances also help trees retain water that is
needed for them to survive.
A. Regardless,
B. Next, 
C. However, 
D. For example,
Answer: D
23.
Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition?
While some researchers have identified the planet Kepler-296e as potentially habitable, itʼs
unlikely that humanity will be able to take advantage of its favorable conditions anytime soon
—itʼs 737 light years away. ______ humanity must first focus on making planets within our
solar system more habitable.
A. Likewise,
B. Instead,
C. For example,
D. Next,
Answer: B
24.
Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition?
The Tres Zapotes archaeological site is located in our home state of Veracruz, Mexico.
______ an 8.5-ton stone statue of a human head was left behind by the ancient Olmec
civilization. In the nearby state of Tabasco was another stone statue that weighs 19.8 tons.
A. In other words,
B. Here,
C. Similarly,
D. Therefore,
Answer: B
25.
Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition?
In a 1948 article titled “The Language of Lines,” Brazilian photographer José Yalenti argued
that black-and-white photographyʼs distinctive—and in his view, superior—use of lines is
what elevates the medium to the status of fine art. ______ Yalenti insisted that conveying
perspective through linear forms is photographyʼs “indisputable and exclusive domain,”
creating a visual language surpassing even celebrated paintersʼ works.
A. Indeed, 
B. In any case, 
C. However,
D. Even so,
Answer: A
26.
The student wants to emphasize the combined deadweight tonnage of the Bahamasʼ
merchant ships in 2021. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the
notes to accomplish this goal?
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
A merchant ship is any ship hired to carry cargo or passengers.
A shipʼs carrying capacity is also known as its deadweight tonnage (DWT).
In 2021, there were a total of 1,323 merchant ships registered in the Bahamas.
The combined DWT of these ships was 74.3 million tons.
A. The carrying capacity of a merchant ship is also known as deadweight tonnage.
B. In 2021, the Bahamas had 1,323 merchant ships hired to carry cargo or passengers.
C. Combined, the Bahamasʼ merchant ships had a deadweight tonnage of 74.3 million tons
in 2021.
D. There were a total of 1,323 merchant ships—ships hired to carry cargo or passengers—
registered in the Bahamas in 2021.
Answer: C
27.
The student wants to support Brownerʼs claim about Louis Ballardʼs compositions. Which
choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
Louis Ballard was a classical composer and citizen of the Quapaw Tribe.
Ballardʼs composition Desert Trilogy was nominated for the Pulitzer Prize in music in
1971.
His composition Devilʼs Promenade incorporates a Seneca cow-horn rattle, a
traditional Native instrument.
Ethnomusicologist Tara Browner claims that Ballardʼs compositions rely on elements
originating within Native musical traditions.
A. According to Browner, composer Louis Ballard, who wrote Desert Trilogy, relies on
elements with origins in Native musical traditions.
B. Classical composer Louis Ballard, who wrote Devilʼs Promenade, was nominated for the
Pulitzer Prize in music in 1971. 
C. Browner posits that Louis Ballardʼs compositions rely on elements originating within
Native musical traditions; Devilʼs Promenade affirms this assertion, incorporating a Seneca
cow-horn rattle.
D. Browner claims that Louis Ballardʼs compositions, one of which was nominated for the
Pulitzer Prize, rely on elements originating within Native musical traditions.
Answer: C
Section: Section 1, Module 2: Reading and Writing, Difficulty:
easy (21 questions)
1.
Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase?
“Which type of material is best for filtering water?” One way to answer questions like this is
to use the scientific method. This approach helps us ______ about topics like water filtration.
First, we make a prediction. Then we collect and analyze data. Eventually, we can draw a
conclusion based on the data we have gathered.
A. fight
B. learn
C. laugh
D. forget
Answer: B
2.
Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase?
The National Heritage Fellowship was created to honor exceptional folk and traditional artists
in the United States. In 2013, the fellowship was given to the Pyramid Lake Paiute storyteller
Ralph Burns to ______ his lifetime contributions to the arts.
A. investigate
B. discover
C. choose
D. celebrate
Answer: D
3.
Which choice best describes the function of the underlined sentence in the text as a whole?
In the US, the Lanham Act allows companies to own trademarks, which are words or images
that represent specific products. “Xerox,” for example, refers to products made specifically
by the Xerox Corporation, the company that owns the trademark. However, the Lanham Act
also allows a trademark to be taken away if it ceases to be specific. For example,
“cellophane” was once a trademark for a particular brand of food wrapping material. Over
time, though, people started using “cellophane” to refer to many different brands. Because
the word had become generic, a court decided that it could no longer be owned as a
trademark.
A. It adds to the textʼs description of products made by the Xerox Corporation.
B. It concludes the textʼs argument about how the Lanham Act can be improved.
C. It begins the textʼs discussion of the fact that trademarks can be taken away.
D. It completes the textʼs comparison of trademark laws in the US to laws in other countries.
Answer: C
4.
Which choice best describes the function of the underlined sentence in the text as a whole?
Moving beyond a simple “present or absent” designation, researchers created a new
classification system that allows for a nuanced understanding of bioluminescence in marine
organisms that was unavailable under binary classification systems. The new six-point scale
considers varying levels of supporting evidence used to identify bioluminescent species. For
example, the firefly squid scores 1 because of inconsistent reports, the painted armhook
squid scores 4 because of its anatomical similarity to known luminous relatives, and the
purple-striped sea nettle scores 6 because of substantiated direct observations.
A. It emphasizes the thoroughness of the research conducted. 
B. It justifies the need for a new classification system for marine species.
C. It explains how the new classification system was derived from the previous binary
system.
D. It explains the basis for the new systemʼs scoring criteria.
Answer: D
5.
Based on the texts, how would the author of Text 2 most likely characterize the study
conducted by Ifrim, González-González, and colleagues in Text 1?
Text 1
With a shell that measured 1.7 meters, the extinct mollusk Parapuzosia seppenradensis is the
largest ammonite in the fossil record. Ever since fossilized remains of this large ammonite
were first discovered in 1895, scientists have been perplexed by its size. After examining 154
ammonite fossils including P. seppenradensis fossils from Texas and Parapuzosia leptophylla
(a smaller ammonite species) fossils from England, paleontologist Christina Ifrim, Arturo H.
González-González, and colleagues concluded that P. seppenradensis may have evolved
from P. leptophylla and gradually increased in size as larger ammonites were better able to
escape being preyed on by mosasaurs.
Text 2
Christina Ifrim and her team have expanded our understanding of the evolutionary history of
ammonites in general, but their study has some gaps that will require additional research to
fill. For instance, thereʼs evidence that mosasaurs preyed on ammonites, but thereʼs no
direct evidence that they interacted specifically with P. seppenradensis.
A. It is correct with regard to P. seppenradensis, but its claims about P. leptophylla are likely
overstated.
B. It is relevant to the study of ammonites, but it overlooks the evolutionary history of
mosasaurs.
C. It is useful for the field as a whole, but a portion of it might be unfounded.
D. It is likely to become outdated quickly, but it features an impressive amount of data.
Answer: C
6.
According to the text, where do Cai and colleagues think K. popovi adults stored their eggs?
Although spiny lobsters and some other arthropods have long been known to actively care
for their eggs and offspring, relatively little has been known about this kind of behavior in
ancient insects. Now, Chenyang Cai and colleagues claim that Jurassic fossils from a site in
China contain the earliest evidence of insect brood care. The researchers examined fossils
of Karataviella popovi, an extinct water insect species, and found thirty adults that appear to
have been storing clusters of eggs on one of their left legs. This discovery reveals that
insects engaged in brood care much earlier than previously believed.
A. On two of their right legs
B. On underwater plants
C. On one of their left legs
D. On fossilized remains of other insects
Answer: C
7.
Which quotation from a student best illustrates the underlined claim?
Museums sometimes make parts of their collections available online. The Museo de Arte de
Lima in Lima, Peru, and the Museum of Modern Art in New York, New York, have both shared
digital images of some of their artworks in online collections. Online collections make it much
easier for people to experience art belonging to museums that arenʼt located close to them.
A. “My family members enjoy going to museums when they travel.”
B. “I probably wonʼt visit the Museo de Arte de Lima because I donʼt like art museums very
much.”
C. “The last time I went to a museum, I spent the whole day looking at different things on
display.”
D. “The Museo de Arte de Lima is far away from where I live, but I was able to look at some
of its art online today.”
Answer: D
8.
Which quotation from The Man in the Brown Suit most effectively illustrates the claim?
The Man in the Brown Suit is a 1924 novel by Agatha Christie. In the novel, the protagonist,
Anne Beddingfeld, talks about how much her father disliked living in the present era, saying,
______
A. “[Papa] returned late that evening, and, to my dismay, I saw his overcoat was missing.”
B. “I have seldom seen Papa so angry.”
C. “Although [Papa] was a fellow of almost every important society, and had rows of letters
after his name, the general public scarcely knew of his existence.”
D. “[Papaʼs] mind dwelt in Palaeolithic times, and the inconvenience of life for him was that
his body inhabited the modern world.”
Answer: D
9.
Which quotation from “The Open Boat” most effectively illustrates the claim?
“The Open Boat” is an 1897 short story by Stephen Crane. In the story, four men are at sea
in a lifeboat. The narrator suggests that the progress of the boat is dependent on the forces
of nature: ______
A. “There was a long, loud swishing astern of the boat, and a gleaming trail of
phosphorescence, like blue flame, was furrowed on the black waters.”
B. “These waves were of the hue of slate, save for the tops, which were of foaming white,
and all of the men knew the colours of the sea.”
C. “It was a long afternoon. A changed tide tried to force [the boat] southward, but wind and
wave said northward.”
D. “The wind came stronger, and sometimes a wave suddenly raged out like a mountain-cat,
and there was to be seen the sheen and sparkle of a broken crest.”
Answer: C
10.
Which choice most effectively uses data from the table to complete the example?
Highest Major Summits in India
SummitElevation (meters)Mountain rangeProminence (meters)
Kangto7,060Assam Himalaya2,195
Saser Kangri III7,495Saser Karakoram850
Langpo6,965Sikkim Himalaya560
Sri Kailash6,932Garhwal Himalaya1,092
Mount Lakshmi6,983Rimo Karakoram800
Mountain summits are often described in terms of their elevation, or height above sea level.
But a summitʼs elevation may not be as good an indication of how high the mountain appears
to observers as is the summitʼs prominence, or its height above its surroundings, and these
values can differ significantly. For example, the Indian mountain of ______
A. Saser Kangri III has an elevation of 7,495 meters but a considerably lower prominence of
850 meters.
B. Kangto has a much higher prominence than does Langpo.
C. Kangto has a high prominence but is from a different mountain range than Mount
Lakshmi, which has a lower prominence.
D. Sri Kailash has an elevation of 6,932 meters and is considered the highest mountain from
the Garhwal Himalaya range.
Answer: A
11.
Which choice most logically completes the text?
Whereas Joan Lockardʼs 1984 study of captive gorillas reported more right-handedness
than left-handedness, Jane Goodallʼs 1963 study of wild chimpanzees did not. According to
a meta-analysis of studies of nonhuman primates, captive populations are more likely to be
described as right-handed than wild populations are. Statistical analysis indicates a
handedness study would need a minimum of 176 individuals to show a representative result;
however, the study by Lockard included a total population of 8, and the study by Goodall
included a total population of 8. This suggests that ______
A. the study by Lockard reliably represents handedness in captive primates, but the study by
Goodall likely does not reliably represent handedness in wild primates.
B. the study by Lockard reliably represents handedness in captive primates but not in wild
primates.
C. neither the study by Lockard nor the study by Goodall provides sufficient evidence to
make a meaningful comparison about handedness in primates.
D. Goodall likely underestimated the prevalence of right-handedness among the wild
chimpanzees in the study.
Answer: C
12.
Which choice most logically completes the text?
British professional soccer team Manchester United Football Club, whose home uniform
color is mainly red, won more than half its home matches between 1947 and 2003. This is a
higher proportion of home matches than Watford Football Club, whose home uniform color is
not red, won during the same period. According to a study by Martin J. Attrill and colleagues,
the color red can cause people to respond with fear and hesitation, which the researchers
think helps explain Manchester Unitedʼs success. Nadav Goldschmied and colleagues
reanalyzed the published data from this study, however, and found no evidence that red-
uniformed teams are more likely than other teams to win, suggesting that Manchester
Unitedʼs red uniforms ______
A. negatively affected the performance of Manchester Unitedʼs opponents.
B. made the Manchester United players more nervous than they would have been if their
uniforms had not been red.
C. did not affect the fansʼ satisfaction with Manchester Unitedʼs performance.
D. did not provide Manchester United with any significant advantage.
Answer: D
13.
Which choice most logically completes the text?
Pablo Picasso famously subverted the norms of traditional painting: in his cubist paintings he
refused to let his expression be constrained, fragmenting objects and figures to present
multiple perspectives simultaneously. Though less widely known, Picasso—who once
lamented that writers of his time had “limited themselves to moving around words somewhat
while respecting the syntax”—also wrote poetry that defied conventional grammar, semantic
relationships, and text structure. Thus, the paintings and poems are linked in that ______
A. the poems are intended to be understood as explanations of the artistic inclinations
reflected in the paintings. 
B. both types of work are characterized by the simultaneous representation of multiple
points of view that Picasso is known for.
C. the poems present many of the same subjects as the paintings but with different thematic
approaches.
D. both exhibit Picassoʼs prioritization of creative expression over the standard rules of the
art forms.
Answer: D
14.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English?
Daily News is an oil painting by Dona Nelson, an American artist. Nelson created ______ in
1983.
A. these
B. it
C. those
D. them
Answer: B
15.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English?
The city of New Delhi, India, is home to an office of the International Criminal Police
Organization (Interpol). However, you wonʼt see Interpol agents chasing international
criminals in New Delhi. Interpol can help with investigations, but only Indian authorities
______ permitted to make arrests there.
A. had been
B. are
C. were being
D. were
Answer: B
16.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English?
Edwige Moyroud is a biologist at the University of ______ conducts research on plants.
A. Cambridge, she
B. Cambridge she
C. Cambridge. She
D. Cambridge. Where she
Answer: C
17.
Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition?
The early Australian railroad system of the 1800s was famously uncoordinated. Trains on the
broad gauge Victorian Goldfields Railway line in Victoria couldnʼt travel on the Ballyhooley
Steam Railway in Queensland, which used narrow gauge tracks, without performing time-
consuming conversions. ______ historians refer to this complicated system as the “mixed
gauge muddle.”
A. For example,
B. Hence,
C. Rather,
D. Likewise,
Answer: B
18.
Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition?
Elvis Presleyʼs iconic jumpsuit White Pinwheel featured rhinestones arranged in pinwheel
patterns. Historians note that adornments such as these added between twenty-five and
fifty pounds to each of Elvisʼs stage outfits. ______ the fabric used to make the outfits was
light and flexible, enabling freedom of motion. 
A. For instance, 
B. There,
C. That is, 
D. On the other hand, 
Answer: D
19.
The student wants to provide a historical overview of the Shackleton expedition. Which
choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:        
1914: British explorer Ernest Shackleton and a small crew embarked on an expedition
to Antarctica.
1915: Shackletonʼs ship Endurance became stuck in ice before eventually breaking
apart and sinking.
1916: After more harrowing sea-ice adventures, the entire crew was rescued.
1959: Historian Alfred Lansing wrote a book called Endurance: Shackletonʼs Incredible
Voyage.
2001: Filmmaker George Butler released a documentary called The Endurance:
Shackletonʼs Legendary Antarctic Expedition.
2022: The wreckage of Endurance was discovered at the bottom of Antarcticaʼs
Weddell Sea.
A. Shackletonʼs expedition has inspired a 1959 book, a 2001 film, and a 2022 discovery.  
B. Alfred Lansing wrote about the history of Shackletonʼs 1914–16 expedition in the book
Endurance: Shackletonʼs Incredible Voyage (1959); years later, in 2001, George Butler
released a documentary about the expedition.
C. In 1914, the Shackleton expedition sailed to Antarctica, where, in 1916, they rescued the
crew of a ship that had sunk, Endurance (the wreckage of which was discovered in 2022).
D. Leaving in 1914 for Antarctica, Shackleton and his crew underwent many harrowing sea-
ice adventures, including losing their ship in 1915, before being rescued in 1916.
Answer: D
20.
The student wants to indicate one or more regions where multiflora rose is causing
environmental or economic harm. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information
from the notes to accomplish this goal?
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
A nonnative species is considered invasive if it causes environmental or economic
harm in an ecosystem.
Multiflora rose is a species of shrub native to East Asia.
It can also be found in the midwestern and eastern US.
There, it forms dense thickets and invades pastures.
It is considered an invasive species in the US.
A. Multiflora rose can be found in the midwestern and eastern US, where it forms dense
thickets and invades pastures.
B. Multiflora rose is considered invasive because it forms dense thickets and invades
pastures, causing environmental harm.
C. Multiflora rose, a shrub native to East Asia, is considered an invasive species.
D. Multiflora rose is native to the midwestern and eastern US, but elsewhere it causes
environmental or economic harm.
Answer: A
21.
The student wants to present the studyʼs research methods. Which choice most effectively
uses relevant information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
Suzanne K. Birner led a study analyzing rocks on the seafloor to better understand the
history of Earthʼs mantle.
Rock samples were collected from two seafloor ridges.
The researchers determined the samplesʼ period of formation (the Archean eon) and
oxidation level (extremely low).
High temperatures in the Archean likely caused the rocksʼ low oxidation.
Birnerʼs team suggests the oxidation of Earthʼs mantle has remained stable over time,
contrary to previous theories.
The findings help explain the unique conditions that allowed life to develop on Earth.
A. Birnerʼs team analyzed the age and oxidation levels of rock samples collected from two
seafloor ridges.
B. To further analyze the origins of Earthʼs unique conditions, researchers focused on rocks
from the Archean eon, when Earthʼs temperatures were extremely high.
C. By studying these ancient rocks, the team aimed to challenge previous theories about
changes in Earthʼs mantle over time.
D. Birner led a study to better understand the history of Earthʼs mantle and explain the
conditions that allowed life to develop.
Answer: A
Section: Section 1, Module 2: Reading and Writing, Difficulty:
hard (27 questions)
1.
Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase?
In the search for new impact craters on Mars, the roles of seismic monitoring and orbital
imaging as data sources are ______: when vibrations detected with seismic monitoring
indicate roughly where an impact has occurred, researchers can use orbital images of that
relatively limited area of the rocky surface to precisely locate a new crater.
A. redundant
B. exhaustive
C. complementary
D. interchangeable
Answer: C
2.
Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase?
Though copies of The Adventures of Indiana Jones in Wenceslas Square in Prague on
January 16, 1989—an underground computer game that was created anonymously in 1989
as an act of political protest against the authoritarian regime of what was then
Czechoslovakia—were originally distributed ______, the game is now readily available online
for anyone to play.
A. succinctly
B. dispassionately
C. surreptitiously
D. disingenuously
Answer: C
3.
Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase?
If some specific predictions in Alvin Tofflerʼs 1970 book Future Shock seem ludicrous now—
people do not wear paper clothing while living in underwater cities—Tofflerʼs fundamental
claim that rapid technological and social change will leave people feeling disoriented and
atomized seems, in our age of disequilibrium and fragmentation, remarkably ______.
A. prescient
B. articulate
C. iconoclastic
D. equivocal
Answer: A
4.
Which choice completes the text with the most logical and precise word or phrase?
A conclusive demonstration of the logical certainty of the honeycomb conjecture, posed in
the first century BCE, ______ mathematiciansʼ efforts until Thomas C. Hales presented the
first valid proof of the conjecture in 1999.
A. defied
B. prefigured
C. epitomized
D. displaced
Answer: A
5.
Which choice best describes the overall structure of the text?
Establishing protected areas (PAs), such as Abrolhos Marine Park in Brazil, is a common
conservation strategy, but because PAs restrict some kinds of economic activity, itʼs widely
thought that they hinder economic development. This perception is driven in part by the fact
that economic assessments often donʼt capture the indirect effects of tourism linked to PAs.
But Heng Zhu et al. found that tourism associated with Abrolhos boosts local demand for
goods and services in other economic sectors, resulting in, for instance, increased income
from fishing in nearby areas.
A. It states a hypothesis that accounts for why PAs generally negatively impact local
economies, outlines how a research teamʼs findings support that hypothesis, and then
suggests how a novel methodology led a separate team of researchers to a different
conclusion.
B. It makes a generalization about the difficulty of using PAs to reconcile economic and
conservation priorities, demonstrates why most PAs fall short of achieving that goal, and
then holds up a particular PA as an example of how that goal can be achieved.
C. It introduces a widely held belief about the effect PAs have on the economy, proposes a
reason for that beliefʼs prevalence, and then details a study whose findings seemingly
conflict with that belief.
D. It explains how PAs typically affect economic development in the regions where they are
established, summarizes the findings of several economic studies that support this
explanation, and then concedes that a particular PA is an exception to the general trend.
Answer: C
6.
Which choice best describes the function of the underlined sentence in the text as a whole?
Most Native languages belong to language families, or groups of languages whose structural
and lexical correspondence likely derives from their descent from a single language spoken
long ago. A minority—such as Washoe, which is spoken in California and Nevada, and
Chitimacha, which is spoken in Louisiana—are isolates, having no demonstrable genealogical
relationship to other languages. Yet Washoe and Chitimacha, like all isolates, are potentially
remnants of families whose other members vanished before the historical record could
attest to them, perhaps through the geographical expansion of extant families.
A. It implies that a nonisolate language may have influenced both Washoe and Chitimacha to
such a degree that their relationship to their former families is no longer discernible. 
B. It suggests that the ancestral languages of both Washoe and Chitimacha were likely
isolates that replaced nonisolate languages through geographic expansion in the distant
past.
C. It asserts that the historical record tends to overrepresent nonisolate languages relative to
isolates, such that the origins of Washoe and Chitimacha are obscure to scholars in the
present day.
D. It proposes that the distinction made between present-day nonisolate languages and
isolates like Washoe and Chitimacha may not have been applicable in the distant past.
Answer: D
7.
Based on the texts, how would the critics mentioned in Text 2 most likely respond to the
underlined claim in Text 1?
Text 1 
Good art often challenges and disrupts social and aesthetic norms, but the creation of public
art—paintings, sculptures, and performance pieces displayed in nonmuseum or
nontheatrical public settings—typically requires broad agreement among artists, civic
officials, and community members about the worksʼ message and artistic goals. Public art
that fails to appease everyone by being sufficiently aesthetically and conceptually bland
almost inevitably provokes backlash.
Text 2
Public art is commonly displayed in spaces intended for purposes other than meaningful
aesthetic engagement. Some critics of public art therefore note that norm-defying pieces
that arenʼt effectively integrated within their surroundings in a manner that primes passersby
to appreciate the piecesʼ merits (as is often the case) tend to be regarded more unfavorably
than similarly provocative art encountered in museums is. 
A. By disputing the notion that civic leaders and community members are easily placated by
art that is intended mainly to reinforce social norms
B. By agreeing with the idea that only works of art that are universally appealing are suitable
for displaying in public spaces
C. By arguing that the reason members of the general public might disagree about a public
artworkʼs merits is unrelated to the unconventionality of its appearance and ideas 
D. By contending that the kinds of reactions controversial public artworks often receive
arenʼt exclusively the result of attributes inherent in the works themselves 
Answer: D
8.
Which choice best describes how Aunt Polly is presented in the text?
The following text is adapted from Mark Twainʼs 1876 novel The Adventures of Tom Sawyer.
Aunt Polly is having dinner with Tom, her mischievous young nephew.
Aunt Polly asked [Tom] questions that were full of guile, and very deep—for she
wanted to trap him into damaging revealments. Like many other simple-hearted
souls, it was her pet vanity to believe she was endowed with a talent for dark and
mysterious diplomacy, and she loved to contemplate her most transparent
devices as marvels of low cunning.
A. The narrator gently makes fun of Aunt Pollyʼs mistaken confidence in her subtlety. 
B. The narrator humorously exaggerates Aunt Pollyʼs view of herself as an intellectual. 
C. The narrator characterizes Aunt Polly as being excessively nosy about other peopleʼs
private lives.
D. The narrator emphasizes that Aunt Pollyʼs intentions are good even when she behaves
impolitely.
Answer: A
9.
Which statement about the use of hydrogen in the petroleum and heating industries is most
strongly supported by the text?
From petroleum refining to fuel for residential heating, hydrogen has many applications.
Currently, producing hydrogen is carbon intensive, but Alexandra M. Oliveira is one of many
scholars investigating the feasibility of large-scale production of hydrogen through
electrolysis, a process that emits no carbon when renewable energy is used. Oliveira
suggests that although some obstacles may prevent electrolytic hydrogen from dominating
energy systems, there is utility in its ability to decarbonize the petroleum and heating
industries, where reducing carbon emissions is especially challenging.
A. The adoption of electrolytic hydrogen by these industries has been impeded by concerns
about how carbon intensive its production is.
B. Development of applications for electrolytic hydrogen is less advanced in these industries
than it is in most other carbon-intensive industries.
C. At least some of electrolytic hydrogenʼs potential to lessen these industriesʼ carbon
emissions is as yet unrealized.
D. The fact that large-scale electrolytic hydrogen production is not yet available has limited
these industriesʼ interest in pursuing hydrogen-based applications.
Answer: C
10.
Which finding, if true, would most directly support the researchersʼ conclusion? 
In subtropical Asia, Apis dorsata (giant honeybee) plays an essential role in pollinating a wide
variety of crops and wild plants. To study how different agricultural land covers affect the
species, Rika Raffiudin and colleagues monitored the foraging activity of the bees as well as
the pollen content of the honey from A. dorsata colonies at two sites in Indonesia: Kampar,
characterized by its surrounding monoculture farms (growing a single crop), and Kerinci, a
forest-agriculture site where multiple crops, including hot peppers and coffee, are grown
nearby. The researchers concluded that a lack of crop variety may reduce total pollen
collection by A. dorsata.
A. Significantly fewer bees were observed engaging in foraging activities with the crops
surrounding Kerinci than with the crops surrounding Kampar.
B. Honey samples from Kerinci bee colonies contained significantly higher concentrations of
pollen than honey samples from Kampar bee colonies did.
C. Pollen in honey samples from Kampar bee colonies was predominantly sourced from a
single plant species, whereas pollen in honey samples from Kerinci bee colonies was
sourced from multiple different plant species.
D. In one Kerinci bee colony, a greater proportion of bees returned to their nests with pollen
than returned without pollen, whereas the inverse was observed in a second Kerinci bee
colony.
Answer: B
11.
Based on the text, what would be the most reasonable next step for the students to take to
accomplish their goal?
In 2009, the US state of Montana enacted rate stability regulations (RSRs), constraining
insurance companiesʼ latitude to raise premiums (the recurring fees policyholders pay to
maintain insurance policies) once policies are in effect. Although RSRs are intended to
benefit consumers, Naoki Aizawa and Ami Ko note that RSRs could curtail insurersʼ profits to
such a degree that insurers abandon the market, thereby reducing the competitive pressure
that typically restrains premium prices for newly issued policies. To determine whether this
occurred in Montana, students first collect data on the number of insurers in the state for a
few years leading up to and following 2009 and the premium prices for new policies offered
by those insurers.
A. Compare changes over time in the premium price data the students have collected with
changes over time in premium prices for policies that were already in effect during the same
period in an otherwise similar state that had not enacted RSRs
B. Compare changes over time within each of the two types of data the students have
collected with changes over time in analogous data for the same period from an otherwise
similar state that had not enacted RSRs 
C. Compare changes over time within each of the two types of data the students have
collected with changes over time in the same types of data from Montana for a period
beginning several years after 2009
D. Compare changes over time in the insurer-number data the students have collected with
changes over time in insurer-number data from another state that enacted RSRs but not
during the same period
Answer: B
12.
Which finding, if true, would most directly weaken Carter and Kilikoglouʼs argument?
Variously, researchers have closely examined obsidian artifacts to understand ancient social
and economic structures, as in Raymond V. Sidrysʼs 1976 study, or to glean aspects of
cultural identity, as in Dennis Ogburn and colleaguesʼ 2009 study. Studies of the Malia
archaeological site on the Mediterranean island of Crete have shown that significant
changes to building styles—changes consistent with an influx of people from another culture
elsewhere in the Mediterranean—occurred from the Middle Bronze Age to the Late Bronze
Age. In a 2022 study, however, Tristan Carter and Vassilis Kilikoglou found that obsidian-
object production methods at Malia stayed remarkably consistent during this architectural
transition, which they interpret as indicative of local cultural continuity in the Middle and Late
Bronze Ages. 
A. The obsidian used to produce objects at Malia was transported to Crete from the same
source elsewhere in the Mediterranean throughout the Middle and Late Bronze Ages. 
B. The methods used to produce obsidian objects at Malia during the Middle and Late
Bronze Ages were also used by some other Mediterranean cultures in the period. 
C. The obsidian-object production method that was most common among other
Mediterranean cultures during the Middle and Late Bronze Ages was more efficient than the
method used at Malia. 
D. Changes to buildings like those that occurred at Malia have not been linked to changes in
obsidian-object production methods in other Mediterranean cultures during the Middle and
Late Bronze Ages.
Answer: B
13.
Which finding, if true, would most directly support the idea that social buffering occurs
among C. helleri?
The presence of other individuals of the same species has been observed to mitigate stress
in highly social mammals. To investigate whether this phenomenon, known as social
buffering, also occurs in reptiles, researchers led by Chelsea E. Martin monitored stress
responses in wild southern Pacific rattlesnakes (Crotalus helleri) in three experimental
treatments: when alone, with a rope, and with a companion C. helleri. The researchers
compared the percent change between baseline and peak heart rate in response to a
(harmless) disturbance, with higher values indicating higher stress levels.
A. Average peak heart rates were highest among solitary C. helleri, but no differences were
observed in average peak heart rates between C. helleri with a companion and C. helleri with
a rope.
B.C. helleri with a companion displayed a lower average baseline heart rate and lower
average peak heart rate than did solitary C. helleri or C. helleri with a rope.
C. The average percent change in heart rate was lower among C. helleri with a companion
than among solitary C. helleri and C. helleri with a rope.
D. SolitaryC. helleri had higher average baseline heart rates than did C. helleri in the other
treatments, but the average percent change in heart rate was smaller among solitary C.
helleri than among C. helleri with a companion.
Answer: C
14.
Which choice most effectively uses data from the table to complete the example?
Highest Major Summits in India
SummitElevation (meters)Mountain rangeProminence (meters)
Kangto7,060Assam Himalaya2,195
Saser Kangri III7,495Saser Karakoram850
Langpo6,965Sikkim Himalaya560
Sri Kailash6,932Garhwal Himalaya1,092
Mount Lakshmi6,983Rimo Karakoram800
Mountain summits are often described in terms of their elevation, or height above sea level.
But a summitʼs elevation may not be as good an indication of how high the mountain appears
to observers as is the summitʼs prominence, or its height above its surroundings, and these
values can differ significantly. For example, the Indian mountain of ______
A. Saser Kangri III has an elevation of 7,495 meters but a considerably lower prominence of
850 meters.
B. Kangto has a much higher prominence than does Langpo.
C. Kangto has a high prominence but is from a different mountain range than Mount
Lakshmi, which has a lower prominence.
D. Sri Kailash has an elevation of 6,932 meters and is considered the highest mountain from
the Garhwal Himalaya range.
Answer: A
15.
Which choice most logically completes the text?
Whereas Joan Lockardʼs 1984 study of captive gorillas reported more right-handedness
than left-handedness, Jane Goodallʼs 1963 study of wild chimpanzees did not. According to
a meta-analysis of studies of nonhuman primates, captive populations are more likely to be
described as right-handed than wild populations are. Statistical analysis indicates a
handedness study would need a minimum of 176 individuals to show a representative result;
however, the study by Lockard included a total population of 8, and the study by Goodall
included a total population of 8. This suggests that ______
A. neither the study by Lockard nor the study by Goodall provides sufficient evidence to
make a meaningful comparison about handedness in primates.
B. the study by Lockard reliably represents handedness in captive primates, but the study by
Goodall likely does not reliably represent handedness in wild primates.
C. Goodall likely underestimated the prevalence of right-handedness among the wild
chimpanzees in the study.
D. the study by Lockard reliably represents handedness in captive primates but not in wild
primates.
Answer: A
16.
Which choice most logically completes the text?
Interested in how the color of dogsʼ irises affects human responses to dogs, Akitsugu Konno
et al. showed images of 12 dogsʼ faces to human participants and asked them to rate the
dogsʼ kindness and trustworthiness as well as the likelihood that they would interact with or
keep the dogs. The researchers had previously adjusted the images so that each dog was
presented in two versions, one with light irises and one with dark irises. They distributed the
images such that no participant saw both the light and dark versions of the same dog. Konno
et al. found that participants responded more positively to the latter. The studyʼs design
allowed the researchers to exclude the possibility that the results ______
A. may have been different if participants had been able to see the dogsʼ irises in person
instead of only seeing images that included the dogsʼ irises.
B. reflected a preference on the part of participants for facial features that happened to
coincide with dark irises in the dogs depicted in the images.
C. were a function of participants emphasizing the colors of the dogsʼ irises over the dogsʼ
kindness and trustworthiness when reacting to the images. 
D. could be explained by participants having preexisting positive feelings about dogs with
dark irises or preexisting negative feelings about dogs with light irises. 
Answer: B
17.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English?
Growing as large as three meters in diameter, the leaves of the giant Amazonian waterlily
feature a complex network of radiating veins that provide structural ______ in thickness from
the center to the edges, these veins allow the leaves to maintain their large size and
buoyancy with minimal material, optimizing light capture and photosynthesis.
A. support. Decreasing
B. support, decreasing
C. support, while decreasing
D. support decreasing
Answer: A
18.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English?
Charles Dickensʼs classic 1850 novel about a young man named David Copperfield has a title
that is instantly recognizable to many readers: David Copperfield. Dickensʼs novel originally
had a different ______ while writing and editing, Dickens had planned to call the novel Magʼs
Diversions.
A. title, though;
B. title, though,
C. title; though
D. title, though
Answer: A
19.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English?
On Guard is a 1997 photograph by Iranian artist Shirin Neshat. Like many of Neshatʼs photos,
the work features a pair of hands. Clasping a microphone, one hand ______ covered in
Persian script, the hands imply an out-of-frame figure on the edge of speaking.
A. is bare and the other is
B. bare, the other is
C. bare and the other
D. is bare, the other
Answer: C
20.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English?
The exoplanet Pi Mensae d was discovered using an indirect approach to planetary
detection, the radial velocity method. Compared to that of the direct imaging method,
______ the effect these exoplanets have on nearby stars.
A. the detection of distant exoplanets, too dim to be observed in the radial velocity methodʼs
vast zone of discovery, is based on 
B. the radial velocity methodʼs zone of discovery is vast, as distant exoplanets too dim to be
observed are detected by
C. the radial velocity method, with its vast zone of discovery, detects exoplanets that are too
dim to be observed by
D. distant exoplanets too dim to be observed are detected within the radial velocity methodʼs
vast zone of discovery through
Answer: B
21.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms to the conventions of Standard English?
In the eastern Chinese city of Suzhou, known as a hub for silk manufacturing, a unique
tradition of embroidery ______ back over two thousand years—one that includes iconic
double-sided stitching with different images on each side—remains popular with modern
audiences, preserving the cityʼs cultural heritage.
A. dates
B. date
C. has dated
D. dating
Answer: D
22.
Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition?
Giant dust plumes from the Sahara Desert that blow across the Atlantic Ocean can have
complex and opposing effects on tropical cyclones. On one hand, the dust can enhance the
formation of ice clouds in the cycloneʼs core, increasing precipitation. ______ the dust can
lower sea surface temperatures around the cycloneʼs core, weakening the storm.
A. In other words,
B. For example,
C. On the other hand,
D. Previously,
Answer: C
23.
Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition?
In 1908, some 298 years after Galileo Galilei and Simon Marius independently discovered
Jupiterʼs four largest moons (Io, Europa, Ganymede, and Callisto), scientists discovered the
moon Pasiphae in orbit around Jupiter. ______ researchers have discovered eighty moons
orbiting Jupiter.
A. To date,
B. In other words,
C. For example,
D. Rather,
Answer: A
24.
Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition?
When ordering the branches of the Colville River system, cartographers tend to begin with
the riverwayʼs lowest point, the Colville River. ______ hydrologists begin at the top of the
river system, with the Siksikpuk River and other tributaries fed by the riverwayʼs source,
Alaskaʼs De Long Mountains.
A. In a similar way,
B. For example,
C. By contrast,
D. In other words,
Answer: C
25.
Which choice completes the text with the most logical transition?
The Sultanate of Brunei, a Malay sea power based on the northern coast of Borneo that
reached its height around 1600 CE, is considered a thalassocracy—a geopolitical entity
whose hegemony resulted from control of the sea rather than of land. Historians classify
thalassocracies as distinct from tellurocracies, or land-based powers. ______ the Ottoman
Empire (1300s–1900s CE) is known for both land and sea supremacy.
A. For example, tellurocracies have long overpowered their rivals:
B. Likewise, thalassocracies are sea-based powers:
C. In other words, empires are classified according to their source of power:
D. Of course, the distinction is not always so neat: 
Answer: D
26.
The student wants to make and support a claim regarding the applicability of the farm-size
transition hypothesis to Thailand. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information
from the notes to accomplish this goal?
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
The farm-size transition hypothesis predicts that economic pressures associated with
modernization result in smaller farms amalgamating into larger-scale commercial
farms.
Masters et al. (2013): The average farm size in Asia “already has or will soon begin to
rise.”
Promkhambut et al. (2023) argue that small rice farms in Thailand have adopted
modern farming methods without a significant scaling-up of farm size.
Promkhambut et al.: “The persistence of [small] rice farms [in Thailand] does not
represent a ‘failureʼ to modernize...or a ‘truncatedʼ transition—it is a response to
modernization.”
A. Taken together, the studies by Masters et al. and Promkhambut et al. suggest that rice
farms in Thailand have responded to the economic pressures associated with modernization
by expanding in size. 
B. The predicted shift to large-scale commercial farming may not hold true for rice farms in
Thailand, where, according to Promkhambut et al., rice farms have remained small as theyʼve
modernized. 
C. Masters et al. report that the average farm size “already has or will soon begin to rise” in
Asia, a finding that is consistent with the farm-size transition hypothesis. 
D. Although the farm-size transition hypothesis may be applicable to some countries in Asia,
it is inconsistent with the development of rice farming in Thailand.  
Answer: D
27.
The student wants to connect a quotation to a particular nontraditional design element in
Codyʼs work. Which choice most effectively uses relevant information from the notes to
accomplish this goal?
While researching a topic, a student has taken the following notes:
Melissa Cody is a Diné (Navajo) textile artist known for blending traditional
Diné designs (stripes, zigzags, and diamond patterns) with nontraditional elements.
Codyʼs work incorporates arrangements of shapes or text inspired by video game
graphics and pop culture references.
Cody: “Iʼm a child of ʼ80s video game culture...I grew up with this world of pixelization.”
Cody: “The things we consider tradition now werenʼt considered tradition when they
first came about.”
Her tapestry Only Love Can Break Your Heart features pop song lyrics in a blocky
digital font over a jagged diamond pattern.
Her tapestry Walking Off No Water Mesa features rectangular panes revealing a
stylized landscape patterned by contrasting colored diamonds.
A. Codyʼs tapestry Only Love Can Break Your Heart features a jagged diamond pattern, a
traditional design element that “we consider tradition now.”
B. The pop song lyrics in a blocky digital font in Only Love Can Break Your Heart reflect
Codyʼs childhood familiarity with blocky video game graphics—what she calls “this world of
pixelization.”
C. According to Cody, some elements of Walking Off No Water Mesa, such as contrasting
colored diamonds, “werenʼt considered tradition when they first came about.”
D. Codyʼs background as “a child of ʼ80s video game culture” factored into her decision to
blend traditional and nontraditional design elements in Walking Off No Water Mesa.
Answer: B
Section: Section 2, Module 1: Math, Difficulty: unknown (22
questions)
1.
y=9x+19
One of the two equations in a system of linear equations is given. The system has infinitely
many solutions. If the second equation in this system is , where  and  are
constants, what is the value of ? 
Answer: 19
2.
If , what is the value of ?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: D
3.
In each of the following data sets of  values,  is a constant. Which of these data sets has
the largest standard deviation?
A.
, , , , 
B.
, , , , 
C.
, , , , 
D.
, , , , 
Answer: D
4.y=mx+b m b
b
5x+2=32 50x+20
6
60
70
320
5 p
p−4pppp+4
p−1p−1pp+1p+1
ppppp
p−5p−4pp+4p+5
A jar has  marbles, and  of these marbles are blue. How many marbles in the jar are
blue?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: A
5.
For which of the following tables are all the values of  and their corresponding values of 
solutions to the given inequality?
A.
B.
C.430 20%
86
172
215
410
r+g<56
r g
r g
0 55
2 53
4 51
r g
0 53
2 55
4 51
r g
0 51
2 55
4 53
D.
Answer: A
6.
The scatterplot shows the relationship between the square footage of  clothing stores and
their annual sales, in millions of dollars. According to the trend shown by the data, which of
the following is the best prediction for the annual sales, in millions of dollars, of a clothing
store that is  thousand square feet?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: Cr g
0 51
2 53
4 55
12
4
4.1
5.4
7.5
10.2
7.
The solution to the given system of equations is . What is the value of ?
Answer: 20
8.
The function  is defined by . What is the y-intercept of the graph of
 in the xy-plane?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: A
9.
A total of  people attended a conference and were offered a choice of  types of entrees.
The table shows the number of people who chose each type of entree.
Type of entreeNumber of people
Beef
Chicken
Fish
Vegetarian
Total
If one of these people is selected at random, what is the probability of selecting a person
who chose a vegetarian entree? (Express your answer as a decimal or fraction, not as a
percent.)
Answer: 0.18x+y=165
x+y+y=185
(x,y) y
f f(x)=6x−1
7
y=f(x)
(0,−1
7)
(0,−6)
(0,6)
(0,7)
50 4
13
20
8
9
50
10.
In the figure shown, lines  and  are parallel and line  intersects both lines. If ,
which of the following must be true?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: A
11.
In the xy-plane, the graph of  intersects the graph of  at two points.
What is the sum of the x-coordinates of the two points of intersection?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: C
12.𝓁 k t x>116
y<64
y>64
x+y<180
x+y>180
y=2x y=x2−35
−35
−5
2
7
The function f is defined by . What is the value of ?
Answer: 13/4
13.
A marine biologist is studying a habitat that contains shoal bass, a species of freshwater fish.
The box plot shown summarizes the lengths, in centimeters (cm), of a sample of  shoal
bass from this habitat. What is the range, in cm, of the lengths of the shoal bass in the
sample?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: B
14.
The area of triangle  is  square centimeters. What is the height , in centimeters, of
this triangle?
A.
B.f(x)=3(1
4−x)2+13
4f(1
4)
70
10
15
29
41
ABC150 h
10
15
C.
D.
Answer: C
15.
What is one of the solutions to the given equation?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: B
16.
Circle A in the xy-plane has the equation . Circle B has the same
center as circle A. The radius of circle B is two times the radius of circle A. The equation
defining circle B in the xy-plane is , where  is a constant. What is
the value of ?
Answer: 100
17.30
60
x2−2x=29
√29
1+√30
30
29+√2
(x+8)2+(y−8)2=25
(x+8)2+(y−8)2=k k
k
The graph of   is shown in the xy-plane. For what value of  does ?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: D
18.
What is the sum of the solutions to the given equation?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: Cy=f(x) x f(x)=0
−4
0
1
4
|3x−30|+3
6=5
1
19
20
30
19.
Line  is defined by . Line  is perpendicular to line  in the xy-plane.
What is the slope of line ?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: D
20.
The width of a rectangle is  inches less than  times its length, in inches. The area of the
rectangle is  square inches. What is the width, in inches, of the rectangle?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: B
21.
A machine makes -inch, -inch, and -inch parts. During a certain day, the number of -
inch parts that the machine makes is  times the number  of -inch parts, and the number
of -inch parts is . During this day, the machine makes  parts total. Which equation
represents this situation?
A.
B.
C.
D.h1
2x+1
5y−40=0 j h
j
−5
2
−2
5
5
2
2
5
16 2
130
5
10
13
18
8 9 3 8
5 n9
3 4 100
8(5n)+9n+3(4)=100
8n+9n+3n=100
5n+4=100
6n+4=100
Answer: D
22.
An exponential model for the number of squirrels in a certain area estimates that there were
 squirrels in the area in the year , and that at the end of each -year period for the
next  years, the number of squirrels in the area was  more than the number at the
end of the previous -year period. Which of the following equations represents this model,
where  is the estimated number of squirrels in this area  years after , and 
?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: D
Section: Section 2, Module 2: Math, Difficulty: easy (14
questions)
1.200 2003 4
20 120%
4
N t 2003
0≤t≤20
N=200(2.20)4t
N=200(1.20)4t
N=200(1.20)t
4
N=200(2.20)t
4
During a physics demonstration, an object was thrown upward and then fell to the ground.
The graph shows the height above the ground , in feet, of the object  seconds after it was
thrown. To the nearest whole number, what was the total distance, in feet, that the object fell
after reaching its highest point above the ground?
Answer: 22
2.
What is the y-intercept of the graph shown?y x
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: C
3.
In a box of marbles, the ratio of blue marbles to green marbles is  to . There are  blue
marbles in the box. How many green marbles are in the box?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: A
4.
The length of a rectangle's diagonal is , and the length of one of the rectangle's sides
is . What is the perimeter of the rectangle?
A.
B.
C.
D.(0,1
5)
(0,0)
(0,5)
(0,−1
5)
71 28
4
7
28
196
√106
9
106
45
28
14
Answer: C
5.
What value of  is the solution to the given equation?
Answer: 0.3
6.
A carnival charges  for each ride ticket and  for each game ticket. A family purchased
ride tickets and game tickets worth a total of . Which equation represents this situation,
where  is the number of ride tickets and  is the number of game tickets that this family
purchased?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: B
7.
The function  is defined by . What is the value of  when ?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: D
8.2.5+x=2.8
x
$2 $5
$35
x y
2(x+y)=35
2x+5y=35
5(x+y)=35
5x+2y=35
g g(x)=7x+1 g(x) x=1
0
1
7
8
The measures of the interior angles of triangle  are , , and . What is the value
of ?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: C
9.
A line in the xy-plane passes through the points , , and . What is the value
of ?
Answer: 72/7
10.
A manager is responsible for ordering supplies for a coffee shop. The shop's inventory starts
with  disposable cups, and the manager estimates that  of these cups are used each
day. Based on this estimate, in how many days will the supply of disposable cups reach
?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: B
11.
Which value is a solution to the given equation?
A.ABC 21°42° x°
x
21
63
117
180
(9,1)(0,8) (c,0)
c
4,600 70
1,800
20
40
60
80
(x−12)(x−2)=0
0
B.
C.
D.
Answer: B
12.
The function  is defined by , where , , , and  are constants. The
graph of  is shown. For how many values of  does ?
A.
Three
B.
Two
C.
One
D.
Zero12
14
24
f f(x)=ax+b
x+c+k abc k
y=f(x) x f(x)=0
Answer: C
13.
A group of  gardeners recorded data on the germination rates of their tomato crop for one
growing season. The scatterplot shows the relationship between the number of tomato
seeds planted, , and the number of tomato seeds that germinated, , for each of the
gardeners. A line of best fit is also shown. 
100 200 300 400 500x100200300400500y
O
Which of the following is the best interpretation of the slope of the line of best fit in this
context?
A.
The number of tomato seeds planted is predicted to increase by  seeds every  days.
B.
The number of tomato seeds planted is predicted to increase by  seeds every  days.
C.
The number of tomato seeds that germinate is predicted to increase by  seeds for every
additional  tomato seeds that are planted.
D.
The number of tomato seeds that germinate is predicted to increase by  seeds for every
additional  tomato seeds that are planted.  10
x y
70 100
350 100
70
100
350
100
Answer: C
14.
What is the radius of the circle in the xy-plane defined by ?  
Answer: 13
Section: Section 2, Module 2: Math, Difficulty: hard (22
questions)
1.
In the figure shown, line  intersects lines  and . If , which additional piece of
information is sufficient to prove that lines  and  are parallel?
A.
B.
C.(x+4)2+(y+6)2=169
k r sw=141
r s
x=39
y=141
D.
Answer: B
2.
A line passes through the points  and  in the xy-plane. What is the slope of the
line?
Answer: 3/2
3.
The length of a rectangle's diagonal is , and the length of one of the rectangle's sides
is . What is the perimeter of the rectangle?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: C
4.
Which of the following is a solution to the given equation?
A.w+y=180
y+z=180
(4,7) (18,28)
√106
9
106
45
28
14
(5x+6)(8x−5)=0
−8
5
B.
C.
D.
Answer: B
5.
The graph of  in the xy-plane is a line. What is the slope of the line?
Answer: -9
6.
A solution to the given system of equations is , where . What is the value of ?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: B
7.
The function  is defined by , and , where  is a constant. What is
the value of ?
A.
B.
C.
D.−6
5
−5
6
−5
8
9x+y=16
x2+y2=3,185
y−8x=0
(x,y) x<0 y
−392
−56
−8
−7
f f(x)=x+11
5f(a)=−15 a
a
−86
−64
−64
5
−4
5
Answer: A
8.
The equation   gives the estimated height above ground, , in
meters, of a plane, where  is the number of seconds since it started a parabolic maneuver.
If this equation is graphed in the xy-plane, which of the following is the best interpretation of
the vertex of the graph?
A.
The plane reached an estimated maximum height of  meters  seconds after it
started the parabolic maneuver. 
B.
The plane reached an estimated maximum height of  meters  seconds after it
started the parabolic maneuver. 
C.
The plane reached an estimated maximum height of  meters  seconds after it
started the parabolic maneuver. 
D.
The plane reached an estimated maximum height of  meters  seconds after it
started the parabolic maneuver. 
Answer: B
9.
In the given equation,  is a constant. The equation has exactly one solution. Which of the
following CANNOT be the value of ?
A.
B.
C.
D.y=−4.9(x−8.9)2+12,400 y
x
12,400 4.9
12,400 8.9
4.9 12,400
8.9 12,400
a(4−x)=28−7x
a
a
1
4
7
28
Answer: C
10.
The function  is defined by , where  is a constant. In the xy-plane,
the graph of   passes through the point . What is the value of ?
Answer: 312
11.
In triangle  shown, . Which expression represents the length of ?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: D
12.g g(x)=(x+13)(t−x) t
y=g(x) (24,0) g(0)
QRS QR<RS QS
¯
23cosQ
23sinQ
23
cosQ
23
sinQ
The graph of the equation  is shown, where  is a constant. What is the value of
?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: A
13.
A beekeeperʼs initial observation of the population of a certain bee colony was  bees.
The beekeeper set a goal to increase the population to  bees. The beekeeper uses a
model that predicts the population of this bee colony begins at  and increases by 
bees per week in the first two weeks after the initial observation, and then increases by 
bees per week until the beekeeperʼs goal is reached. According to this model, at the end of
week  after the initial observation, where , which of the following functions gives the
predicted number of bees still needed to reach the beekeeperʼs goal?
A.
B.
C.y=5x+k k
k
−8
−7
7
8
1,800
3,300
1,800 120
180
w w>2
p(w)=3,300−180w
p(w)=3,180+180w
p(w)=1,620−180w
D.
Answer: C
14.
The function  is defined by . For any positive integer , the value of 
 is  less than the value of . What is the value of ?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: D
15.
For the given functions  and ,  is a constant. If , what is the
value of ?
Answer: 2
16.
The triangle inequality theorem states that the sum of any two sides of a triangle must be
greater than the length of the third side. If a triangle has side lengths of  and , which
inequality represents the possible lengths, , of the third side of the triangle?
A.
B.
C.
D. or p(w)=−120+180w
f f(x)=55(0.19)xn
f(n)p% f(n−1) p
19
45
55
81
r(x)=13(x−2)
s(x)=x3+nx2+2nx+8
r sn r(x)⋅s(x)=13(x4−16)
n
10 11
x
x<21
x>21
1<x<21
x<1x>21
Answer: C
17.
An area of  square nautical miles is equivalent to  square kilometers. To the nearest
tenth, what is the value of ? 
Answer: 198.9
18.
A line in the xy-plane passes through the points , , and . What is the value
of ?
Answer: 72/7
19.
An engineer connects resistors in series, where the resistors in the series have a total
resistance of  ohms. In this series, there are  resistors of type A, which each have a
resistance of  ohms, and  resistors of type B, which each have a resistance of  ohms. The
given equation represents this situation. According to this equation, what is the positive
difference between the value of  and the value of ?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: D
20.
The table gives the areas and perimeters of two similar rectangles, where  is a constant.58.00 k
k(1 nautical mile=1.852 kilometers)
(9,1)(0,8) (c,0)
c
x
7+y
9=41
63
41
63x
a y b
a b
41
2
41
63
2
63
n
Area (square inches)Perimeter (inches)
Rectangle A
Rectangle B
What is the value of ?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: D
21.
In , Aster earned  more than in , and in  Aster earned  more than in
. If Aster earned  times as much in  as in , which of the following is closest
to the value of ?
A.
B.
C.
D.
Answer: C
22.
Which expression is a factor of ?
A.
B.
C.
D.660 220
2,640 n
n
2,200
1,760
880
440
2005 12% 2004 2006 6%
2005 y 2004 2006
y
0.5000
0.7200
0.8423
1.1872
y2(x−9)−36(x−9)3
y(x−9)
(x−9)(x−6)
y+x−9
y+6x−54
Answer: D
